





PART 1—THE SCHEDULE



SECTION B—SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS



ARTICLE B.1.  INTRODUCTION/BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF SUPPLIES OR SERVICES



This solicitation is issued by SAIC-Frederick, Inc. (SAIC-F), a Wholly Owned Subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation under its prime contract with the National Cancer Institute at .  The provisions and clauses contained herein and attached are influenced by and reflect the relationship of the parties in that contract, which was awarded and is administered under the provision of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  



This effort is funded through the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (ARRA).   For purposes of ARRA reporting compliance, as delineated in FAR Clause 52.204-11, SAIC-F has developed an ARRA set of Representations & Certifications which may be found at Attachment 5.   All fields must be completed and will be verified by the Subcontracts Specialist identified in Section G.  Any failure to complete the ARRA Certifications will result in ineligibility of award.



As Prime Contractor, SAIC-F will enter subcontractor reporting information into Federal Reporting website and shall do so as required in FAR 52.204-11 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act  - Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009).  To facilitate this reporting, Subcontractor must log onto the following website  and enter the required data on a (calendar) quarterly basis by the fifth day of the month following the last month of the reporting quarter.  Subcontractor will need to create a log-in identification which will be used each time data is entered.   Upon award, a notification will be sent on how to sign up for an account to use the site and information about how to use this site.   Please do not contact the Web Master until this notification has been sent, as they will be unable to provide access to the system.  This ARRA reporting is considered a subcontract deliverable and failure to comply may be considered a material breach of this subcontract subject to the remedies of SAIC-F Terms and Conditions Section 26.



Potential offerors who have individuals that work on CBIIT Program Level Workspace, Architecture, or Governance teams or similar efforts at the  FDA, and through this participation have access to information which might give them a competitive advantage are to certify that these individuals have not participated in the proposal preparation. In addition, it must be certified that a firewall has been established within the offeror’s organization which provides a separation between the proposal team and the individuals who work on CBIIT Program Level Workspace Architecture or Governance teams or on similar efforts at the FDA to insure information gained from such participation is not used in preparation of the proposal.  These certifications are necessary to insure a full and open competition is conducted with no offeror having an inappropriate competitive advantage.



Independently, and not as an agent of the Government or SAIC-F, the Subcontractor shall furnish services, qualified personnel, materials, equipment, and facilities not otherwise provided under the terms of this Subcontract, as needed, to design, create, and develop a new clinical trials repository called “the Clinical Trials Repository” (CTR).and associated services to support the  automated processing of SDTM datasets from the time they are made available for loading from the Food and Drug Administration’s (FDA) electronic document rooms (EDR) through their validation and loading into CTR.  The CTR will include a new database design to be developed by the Subcontractor, with such database providing significant analytical and visualization functions. 



ARTICLE B.2.  TYPE OF CONTRACT



This is a Time-and-Materials contract as described in FAR Part 16.601.  A Time-and-Materials contract provides for acquiring supplies or services on the basis of (1) Direct labor hours at specified fixed hourly rates that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit; and (2) Materials at cost, including, if appropriate, material handling costs as part of material costs.  The contractor may not exceed the established ceiling amount without the prior approval of the contracting officer.



ARTICLE B.3.  PRICES/COSTS



The total cost of this Time and Material subcontract is __________ (upon award, see Attachment 4 – Budget). 



ARTICLE B.4.  ADVANCE UNDERSTANDINGS



Items Unallowable Unless Otherwise Provided

Notwithstanding the clause, ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT, incorporated in this subcontract, unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer, the costs of the following items or activities shall be unallowable as direct costs:



Acquisition, by purchase or lease, of any interest in real property;

Special re-arrangement or alteration of facilities;

Purchase or lease of any item of general purpose office furniture or office equipment regardless of dollar value.  (General purpose equipment is defined as any items of personal property, which are usable for purposes other than research, such as office equipment and furnishings, sensitive equipment, etc.); unless otherwise provided for in Attachment 4 – Price Schedule.

Travel to attend general scientific meetings, whether at domestic or foreign locations; unless otherwise provided for in Attachment 4 – Price Schedule;

Consultant expenses; and

Subcontracts; unless otherwise provided for in Attachment 4 – Price Schedule



Items to be Furnished to the Offeror

None



Travel Costs

Travel including lodging, other subsistence, and incidental expenses shall be allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed the amounts allowed for Federal employees and as provided in Attachment 4.  The Subcontractor, therefore, shall invoice and be reimbursed for all travel costs in accordance with FAR Subpart 31.205-46.  All required travel not identified in the approved budget must be preapproved by the contracting officer before costs may be incurred.



Confidentiality

The Subcontractor shall address the potential sensitivity of the information collected, information security issues, local Institutional Review Board (IRB) requirements, and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996 in its performance of subcontract requirements.



Final regulations issued by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) provide privacy and security standards that must be observed in the handling of patient data resulting from biomedical research.  HIPAA privacy standards will be used to establish safeguards and restrictions for the use and disclosure of research records.  HIPAA security standards will be used to help cancer centers implement administrative, physical, and technical safeguards to protect electronic health information.  Improper use or disclosure of sensitive information under the rules may be subject to criminal or civil sanctions prescribed in HIPAA.



SECTION C—DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES



[See Attachment 6 for Complete Content of RFP Statement of Objectives]



SECTION D—PACKAGING AND MARKING



ARTICLE D.1.  PACKAGING AND SHIPPING



Any deliverables required under this subcontract, shall be packaged, marked, and shipped in accordance with Government specifications.  The Subcontractor shall guarantee that all required materials be delivered in immediate usable and acceptable condition.



SECTION E—INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



ARTICLE E.1.  INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE



Inspection and acceptance will be performed at the National Cancer Institute - Frederick (NCI-Frederick), Frederick, Maryland.



General Acceptance Criteria 

In addition to specific acceptance criteria as provided in the RFP Statement of Objectives (Attachment 6), general quality measures, as set forth below, will be applied to each deliverable received from the Subcontractor under this statement of work.



Accuracy – Deliverables shall be accurate in presentation, technical content, and adherence to accepted elements of style.

Clarity – Deliverables shall be clear and concise. Any/All diagrams shall be easy to understand and be relevant to the supporting narrative.

Consistency to Requirements – All Deliverables must satisfy the requirements of this statement of work.

Timeliness – Deliverables shall be submitted on or before the due date specified in this statement of work or the PMP, or submitted in accordance with a later scheduled date determined by the SAIC-F COTR.

User acceptance – User acceptance for software products will be documented by stakeholders’ signature(s) on software design documents and test plan, as well as completed software user testing documentation.  The intent of involving stakeholders at all stages of design and testing is to ensure the software performs as per their specific needs and meets the documented design requirements.  These signatures will represent that the relevant stakeholders have (1) participated in the requirements generation, test design, and user testing;(2) ensured the software performs according to the parameters specified in the design documents; and (3) properly executed the approved test plan carried out at their site.

Subcontractor User Acceptance – User acceptance for Workspace/Working Group software and solution development products will be documented by Subcontractors’ signature(s) on a sign-off page for source code.  These signatures will represent that the Subcontractor:

Conducted software or solution development according to defined processes.

Conducted quality assurance and quality control activities (e.g., white-box and unit testing) during the development process.

Conducted software defect reporting and responded to software defect reports from the Adopter.



C.	Specific Acceptance Criteria



For all deliverables, the COTR will perform an evaluation for each deliverable using specific acceptance criteria as provided in the RFP Statement of Objectives (Attachment 6) under Section 7.2.1 



D.	Deliverable Review and Acceptance Process



Notice of approval/rejection will be sent to the contractor within 30 calendar days of receipt of the deliverable.  If deliverables meet the acceptance criteria, the SAIC-F Contracting Officer will issue the Subcontractor a written acceptance through email that acknowledges both receipt and overall acceptance of the deliverable.  Irrespective of payment status for subject deliverable, Subcontractor should not assume acceptance has been made without formal notification from the SAIC-F Contracting Officer.  If deliverables do not meet the acceptance criteria, all issues will be described unambiguously and sent to the Subcontractor via email.  The Subcontractor will then address each issue or state why the issue may not be addressed and resubmit the deliverable.  Resubmitted deliverables will be reviewed within 15 calendar days.



Absence of any comments by the SAIC-F CO will not relieve the Subcontractor of the responsibility for complying with requirements in this statement of work.  Final approval and acceptance of documentation required herein shall be by letter of approval by the SAIC-F CO.  The Subcontractor shall not construe any letter of acknowledgment of receipt material as a waiver of review or as an acknowledgment that the material is in conformance with this.



SECTION F—DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE



ARTICLE F.1.  PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE



The Period of Performance of this Subcontract shall be from award through September 30, 2013.

All work defined in the Statement of Objectives (Attachment 6) is to be completed by September 30, 2013 according to the plan submitted by the Subcontractor.





ARTICLE F.2.  PLACE OF PERFORMANCE



The majority of the work will be performed at the vendor’s facilities.   Periodic meetings and consultations at the FDA and CBIIT offices are expected.  Specific tasks, such as testing and demonstrations, will be performed at other locations determined by the SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative.



ARTICLE F.3.  DELIVERIES



Satisfactory performance of the final subcontract shall be deemed to occur upon written acceptance by the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer.



Copies of all reports identified herein and attached shall be submitted to the following:







ARTICLE F.3.  STOP WORK ORDERS



This subcontract incorporates FAR Clause 52.242-15 Stop Work Order by reference, with the same force and effect as if it were given in full text.  The full text of the clause may be accessed electronically at this address: .



SECTION G—SUBCONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA



ARTICLE G.1.  SUBCONTRACT REPRESENTATIVES



Contracting Officer.  The following individual is designated as the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer:



Jennifer Thomas

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

P.O. Box B

Frederick, MD  21702-1201

Phone:  301-228-4004 Fax:  301-228-4037

E-mail:  



Only the Contracting Officer has authority to: (1) direct or negotiate any changes to the Statement of Work; (2) modify or extend the period of performance; (3) change the delivery schedule; (4) authorize reimbursement to the Subcontractor of any costs incurred during the performance of this subcontract; or (5) otherwise change any terms and conditions of this subcontract.  All changes to the Statement of Work will be accomplished by bilateral modification to the subcontract.



Only the Contracting Officer as named above shall have the authority to prescribe changes to this subcontract or provide direction for which the Subcontractor will seek reimbursement.  Any costs incurred by the Subcontractor not delineated herein or without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer are incurred at the Subcontractor’s significant risk of non-payment. 



Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR).  The following individual is designated as the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR and is authorized to provide technical guidance and otherwise represent SAIC-Frederick as stated herein:

		





The Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative/Technical Project Manager is responsible for: (1) monitoring the Subcontractor’s technical progress, including the surveillance and assessment of performance and recommending to the Contracting Officer changes in requirements; (2) interpreting the Statement of Work and any other technical performance requirements; (3) performing technical evaluation as required; (4) performing technical inspections and acceptances required by this subcontract; and (5) assisting in the resolution of technical problems encountered during performance



Neither the COTR nor any person or entity other than the Contracting Officer possess any authority, implied or apparent, to provide direction that may cause or influence the Subcontractor to incur additional costs for which reimbursement may be sought.  Any costs incurred by the Subcontractor not delineated herein or without the prior written approval of the Contracting Officer are incurred at the Subcontractor’s significant risk of non-payment.



Subcontracts Specialist.  The following individual has been designated as the SAIC-Frederick Subcontracts Specialist for purposes of administering, processing, and handling contractual documentation:



			Kimberly A. Iman

			SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

P.O. Box B 

Frederick, Maryland 21702-1201 

Phone:	301-228-4033

Fax:	301-228-4037

E-mail:  



Subcontractor Authorized Representative(s).  The following individual(s) is the designated representative of the Company / Institution: 



TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR



Subcontractor Authorized Invoice Administrator.  The following individual(s) is responsible for preparation and submittal of invoice(s):



TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR





ARTICLE G.2.  KEY PERSONNEL



Pursuant to the Key Personnel clause incorporated in this subcontract, the following individual(s) are considered to be essential to the work being performed hereunder and shall not be re-assigned or removed without the concurrence of the Contracting Officer:



	

ARTICLE G.3.  INVOICE SUBMISSION



A.	Payment terms begin after acceptance of proper invoice (see Attachment 2 – SAIC-Frederick Invoice Instructions).   Invoices shall be submitted monthly and must include the information required by the instructions provided as Attachment 2.  Invoices are to be submitted in U.S. Dollars.



	Invoices may be submitted in one of two ways:



(1)	An original and one (1) copy may be mailed to the following designated payment office:

		

		ATTN:  Ms. Leasa Mercer

		NCI-Frederick Cancer Research & Development Center

		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		P. O. Box B

		Frederick, Maryland  21702-1201



OR



(2)	Invoices may be submitted electronically to .  All e-mail submissions must include the Subcontractor name, subcontract number, and invoice number in the subject line of the e-mail.



B.	Inquiries regarding payment of invoices shall be directed to the attention of Kim Iman at 301-228-4033.



C.	To expedite payment of invoices, it is essential that the Subcontractor provide sufficient data to support costs invoiced. 



D.	Payment shall be considered made on the date on which a check for such payment is dated.



ARTICLE G.4.  GOVERNMENT PROPERTY



All purchases of equipment regardless of value must be approved in advance of purchase and reported, with receipts attached, on the coinciding invoice.  It is required that a Report of Capitalized Non-Expendable Equipment be completed for all equipment purchases and also submitted with coinciding invoice (see Attachment 2).  All equipment purchased for work in support of this subcontract that is reimbursed under the subcontract shall remain the property of the U.S. Federal Government unless further determination is made through the SAIC-F Contracting Officer.



SECTION H—SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS



ARTICLE H.1.  PUBLICATION/ PUBLICITY AND PRESS RELEASE



1.  Publication/ Publicity.  Unless otherwise specified in this subcontract, the Subcontractor is encouraged to publish the results of its work under this subcontract. A copy of each article submitted by the Subcontractor for publication shall be promptly sent to the SAIC-F Technical Representative and shall also inform the same when the article or other publication is published.  Additionally, final manuscripts shall be submitted electronically to the NIH National Library of Medicine’s (NLM) PubMed Central (PMC) (Available at:   ).  The subcontractor shall acknowledge the support of the National Institutes of Health whenever publicizing the work under this subcontract in any media by including an acknowledgment substantially as follows:



a.	For Manuscripts:  "This project has been funded in whole or in part with Federal funds from the National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, under Contract No. HHSN261200800001E.  The content of this publication does not necessarily reflect the views of policies of the Department of Health and Human Services, nor does mention of trade names, commercial products, or organizations imply endorsement by the U.S. Government."



For Abstracts: (due to space limitations): “Funded by NCI Contract No. HHSN261200800001E.”



b.	Authors of manuscripts/abstracts have the option of using any or all of the following affiliations:



Option 1) Government laboratory name

Option 2) SAIC-Frederick, Inc. laboratory name

Option 3) SAIC-Frederick, Inc. directorate name



The selected option(s) shall be inserted into the following statement:



Author(s) Name, (Option 1, 2, and/or 3), SAIC-Frederick, Inc., NCI-Frederick, Frederick, Maryland  21702.



c.	The following additional statement is to be included in manuscripts when animal studies have been performed:



“NCI-Frederick is accredited by AAALAC International and follows the Public Health Service Policy for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals.  Animal care was provided in accordance with the procedures outlined in the Guide for Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Research Council; 1996; National Academy Press; Washington, D.C.).”



2.  Press Releases.  The Subcontractor shall not, without prior written approval of the SAIC-F Contracting Officer, issue press releases describing or otherwise referring to this subcontract or the efforts undertaken as a result thereof.  Requests for approval shall be submitted 30 days prior to any requested release date.  



Any approved press releases as well as, requests for proposals, bid solicitations and other documents describing projects or programs funded in whole or in part with Federal money shall clearly state: (1) the percentage of the total costs of the program or project which will be financed with Federal money; (2) the dollar amount of Federal funds for the project or program; and (3) the percentage and dollar amount of the total costs of the project or program that will be financed by nongovernmental sources.



ARTICLE H.2.  RESERVED



ARTICLE H.3.  RESERVED



ARTICLE H.4.  REPORTING MATTERS INVOLVING FRAUD, WASTE AND ABUSE



Anyone who becomes aware of the existence of fraud, waste and abuse in NIH funded programs is encouraged to report such matters to the HHS Inspector General’s Office in writing or on the Inspector General’s Hotline.  The toll free number is 1-800-HHS-TIPS (1-800-447-8477).  All telephone calls will be handled confidentially.  The e-mail address is  and the mailing address is:



		Office of Inspector General

		Department of Health and Human Services

		TIPS HOTLINE

		P.O. Box 23489

		Washington, D.C.  20026

Information regarding procedural matters is contained in the NIH Manual Chapter 1754, which is available on .

ARTICLE H.5. ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICT OF INTEREST



For the purposes of this Agreement, "Organizational Conflict of Interest" (OCI) means a situation in which, because of other activities or relationships, the Subcontractor is unable or potentially unable to render impartial assistance or advice to Buyer under this Agreement, or the Subcontractor's objectivity in performing work under this Agreement is or might be otherwise impaired, or the Subcontractor obtains has an unfair competitive advantage in performing work under this Agreement. 



Subcontractor agrees to notify Buyer of any actual or potential Organizational Conflict of Interest that may arise during its performance of work under this Agreement. Such notification shall be in writing and made as soon as practicable after Subcontractor's recognition of the actual or potential OCI. Subcontractor shall include in such notification its proposed method to avoid or mitigate such OCI. 



Buyer and Subcontractor shall at all times cooperate to ensure that Buyer's actions under this Agreement do not create circumstances in which OCIs are likely to arise, and, if any OCIs should arise, to ensure that appropriate measures are taken by all parties to protect the interests of Buyer, Subcontractor, and the Government.  Such measures may include, but are not limited to, modifying work assigned to Subcontractor or implementing a suitable mitigation strategy.

 



ARTICLE H.6.  PROHIBITION ON SUBCONTRACTOR INVOLVEMENT WITH TERRORIST ACTIVITIES



The Subcontractor acknowledges that U.S. Executive Orders and Laws, including but not limited to E.O. 13224 and Public Law, prohibit transactions with, and the provision of resources and support to individuals and organizations associated with terrorism.  It is the legal responsibility of the Subcontractor to ensure compliance with these Executive Orders and Laws.  This clause must be included in all subcontracts issued under this contract.



ARTICLE H.7. INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS AND CERTIFICATES



The Subcontractor must provide Certificates of Insurance, proving:



Commercial General Liability coverage

Errors & Omissions coverage

Professional Liability coverage

Property Damage coverage

Automobile Liability coverage

All Risk coverage

Worker’s Compensation coverage

Foreign Workers’ Compensation coverage (including Defense Base Act coverage)



The Certificate of Insurance shall certify that the Subcontractor is insured for the period of performance of this Subcontract.  Further, the Certificate of Insurance shall name SAIC-Frederick, Inc. as “Additionally Named Insured”.  The contract number and name of the project shall be included in the block naming SAIC-Frederick, Inc. as Additional Named Insured.



If at any time the period of performance of this Subcontract the insurance coverage lapses or is cancelled, the Subcontractor will immediately notify SAIC-Frederick, Inc.





ARTICLE H.8. ADDITIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DELIVERABLES



DEFINITIONS



“caBIG® Community” – all participants in caBIG®, including, without limitation, all Subcontractors of SAIC-F for caBIG®, other contractors of the NCI and their Subcontractors, and persons participating on a volunteer basis in caBIG® 



“caBIG® Community Website” – the website () /for caBIG® Participants and others needing specific information about caBIG® activities and products 



“Model caBIG® Software License” – in its current form and posted on the caBIG® Community Website, which may be accessed at the URL below, and as may be updated from time to time, the current version of which will always be the relevant document. 







“caBIG® Participants” – individual members of the caBIG® Community



“Deliverables” - all items first produced, developed, delivered or used in connection with development or adoption activities under this Subcontract, including, but not limited to, datasets, data files, software, (including application programming interfaces (APIs) and middleware), source code, object code, documentation, reports and other data (including Proprietary Software and Proprietary Technical Data for which separate approval has not been obtained  pursuant to the requirements below).  



“Proprietary Software” – Subcontractor or third party proprietary software applications that are not developed under this Subcontract



“Proprietary Technical Data” -- proprietary third party technical data or technical data proprietary to Subcontractor



“Software Deliverables” – collectively, caBIG® Software and caBIG® Software Modifications



“caBIG® Software” – all source code, object code and related documentation that is funded, developed or delivered under this Subcontract



“Technical Data Deliverables” – all data except for Software Deliverables that are produced, developed, delivered or utilized in connection with development, testing, adoption or other activities performed under this Subcontract.



RIGHTS IN DATA 



It is specifically understood that an important Government purpose for the work to be performed under the Subcontract is world-wide, free distribution of all Deliverables and Software Deliverables under the rights granted pursuant to the Subcontract. The Subcontractor is hereby given Contracting Officer’s advanced approval (to the extent possible), as required in FAR 52.227-14 Rights in Data, to assert copyright in Software Deliverables first produced in the performance of the Subcontract, provided, however, that upon the request of the Contracting Officer at any time and at their complete discretion, Subcontractor agrees to assign copyright to the Government and execute the Assignment Document (Attachment 7) or any other document reasonably necessary for the assignment.   Before the Subcontractor exercises the advanced approval to assert copyright in works that would, without the advanced approval granted here, require Contracting Officer Approval under FAR 52.227-14(c), the Subcontractor will report the copyrightable work to the SAIC-F COTR and to the Subcontracts Specialist.  The report will include: a brief description of the work; whether it is a document, data, database, software, or other; a copy of the work, with source code if applicable, and the general applications and functions known or anticipated for this work.



Subcontractor grants to the Government, SAIC-F, the caBIG® Community, and the public, in all Deliverables and, notwithstanding any language to the contrary in FAR 52.227-14, all Software Deliverables, “unlimited rights” as they are defined in FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data –General. “Unlimited rights” means the rights of the Government to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so.



In addition to FAR 52.227-14, Rights in Data – General and the Government purpose noted above, and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Subcontract, Subcontractor  also agrees to grant to the Government, SAIC-F, the caBIG® Community, and the public a nonexclusive, worldwide, perpetual, fully paid up, no-charge, irrevocable, transferable and royalty-free right and license in its rights in all Deliverables and Software Deliverables, including any copyright or patent rights therein, to: (a) use, install, disclose, access, operate, execute, reproduce, copy, modify, translate, market, publicly display, publicly perform, and prepare derivative works of Deliverables and Software Deliverables in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so; (b) make, have made, use, practice, sell, offer for sale, import, and/or otherwise dispose of Deliverables and Software Deliverables (or portions thereof); (c) distribute and have distributed to and by third parties Deliverables and Software Deliverables and any modifications and derivative works thereof; and (d) sublicense the foregoing rights set out in (a), (b) and (c) to third parties, including the right to license such rights to further third parties. Proprietary Technical Data and modifications or extensions of Proprietary Software not funded, developed or used in connection with the Subcontract are not subject to the provisions set forth above.  



GENERAL.  



Delivery And Disclosure.  Deliverables shall be delivered in electronic format to SAIC-F and the NCI-CBIIT by upload to GForge as specified in Section C, Statement of Work (Attachments  6).  All Software Deliverables that are not source code must be accompanied by source code.  Furthermore, Subcontractor acknowledges and agrees that all Deliverables may be made available by NCI-CBIIT to the caBIG® Community and the public by posting on the caBIG® Community Website. 



License To All Deliverables.  All Deliverables and Software Deliverables shall be available subject to the provisions of this Article. 



Patent Rights.  Pursuant to FAR 52.227-11, the Government shall have a nonexclusive, nontransferable, irrevocable, paid-up license to practice or have practiced for or on behalf of the United States any subject invention relating to any Deliverable.  It is not anticipated that Subcontractor will file patent applications on Deliverables, but if it does, Subcontractor agrees that it will permit any Deliverables covered by patent applications or issued patents to be used for research or educational purposes by the caBIG® Community and the public without charge under terms that are consistent with the National Institutes of Health (NIH) Principles for Recipients of NIH Research Grants and Contracts on Obtaining and Disseminating Biomedical Research Resources, 64 Fed. Reg. 72090 (Dec. 23, 1999).



SOFTWARE DELIVERABLES.  



Delivery of Software Deliverables. All Software Deliverables shall be delivered by Subcontractor through upload to GForge as specified in Section C, Statement of Work (Attachments 6), and shall be available pursuant to the terms of this Article H.8 and in accordance with the following additional conditions:



Subcontractor and its end-users are not authorized by the Subcontract to incorporate Software Deliverables into Proprietary Software. 



In addition to distribution by NCI CBIIT on the caBIG® Community Website, Subcontractor may distribute versions of Software Deliverables in its possession, but ONLY so long as such distribution is made under the terms of the caBIG® Model Open Source Software License or a substantially equivalent agreement that is approved by the Contracting Officer.  Subcontractor hereby acknowledges and agrees that Subcontractor has reviewed the terms of the caBIG® Model Open Source Software License and understands the scope of said license (including the scope of patent rights granted therein). 



Subcontractor and its end-users are expressly not authorized by this Subcontract to use any trademarks, service names, logos or product names owned by the NCI or caBIG® Participants. It is understood that such use may be permitted under a separate license agreement granted by the NCI or caBIG® Participant to Subcontractor.



The names “The National Cancer Institute”, “NCI”, “Science Applications International Corporation,” “SAIC”, “SAIC-Frederick, Inc.” and any names which Subcontractor may use to refer to caBIG® Software and caBIG® Software Modifications shall not be used by Subcontractor or its end-users to endorse or promote products derived from caBIG® Software or caBIG® Software Modifications.



Proprietary Software.  



(1)	Proprietary Software shall not be used or delivered in performance of the Subcontract unless prior written permission is granted by the Contracting Officer to use or deliver such Proprietary Software and the terms of a license applicable to such Proprietary Software have been determined in advance. 



(2)	Any Proprietary Software which is delivered with the Contracting Officer’s approval shall be segregated from all caBIG® Software that modifies or extends such Proprietary Software and is  delivered in performance of the Subcontract or, if it is not, the entire product, including both the Proprietary Software and any caBIG® Software along with source code, shall be delivered by upload to GForge as specified in Section C, Statement of Work, and subject to the provisions of this Article H.8.  Subcontractor will be responsible for obtaining the rights set forth above to Proprietary Software owned or controlled by third parties that is used or delivered in performance of the Subcontract.



(3)	Modifications or extensions of Proprietary Software not funded and developed under the Subcontract are not subject to the provisions of this Article H.8.



TECHNICAL DATA DELIVERABLES



All Technical Data Deliverables shall be made available pursuant to the terms of this Article H.8 and in accordance with the following additional conditions:



Subcontractor must submit a data sharing plan with any Technical Data Deliverables that are subject to requirements set forth below in Article H.8.F. 



Attribution of the source of the Technical Data Deliverable shall be published with the Technical Data Deliverable.



(b)	Proprietary Technical Data.



No Proprietary Technical Data may be used in connection with Subcontractor’s performance under the Subcontract if such data are subject to restrictions that conflict with the provisions defined above UNLESS Subcontractor first receives written permission from the Contracting Officer to do so. Any Proprietary Technical Data that is used or delivered without prior permission from the Contracting Officer shall be subject to the provisions defined above.  Subcontractor will be responsible for obtaining the rights to Proprietary Technical Data owned or controlled by third parties that is used or delivered in performance of the Subcontract as defined above.



Proprietary Technical Data that are not collected, developed or used in connection with Subcontractor’s performance under the Subcontract are not subject to the provisions of this Article H.

 

OTHER LAWS AND REGULATIONS.  All Deliverables shall be provided or made available by Subcontractor in accordance with all applicable federal and state legal, regulatory and policy requirements, including, without limitation, HIPAA, the HIPAA Privacy and Security Rules, the Common Rule, FDA Regulations concerning the Informed Consent of Human Subjects, other  FDA regulatory requirements, state privacy laws, and institutional review board (IRB) requirements.



ARTICLE H.9. INFORMATION SECURITY  



Subcontractor agrees to comply with the Information Technology (IT) systems security and/or privacy specifications set forth in this Agreement and as further defined by the Federal Information Security Management Act of 2002 (FISMA), Title III, E-Government Act of 2002, Pub. L. No. 107-347 (Dec. 17, 2002); .



The Subcontractor further agrees to include this provision in any Subcontract awarded pursuant to the Agreement.

The Subcontractor shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of the Agreement.  The Subcontractor shall establish and implement appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of sensitive Government information, data and/or equipment.  Any Subcontractor employee who may have access to sensitive information under this agreement shall complete the form entitled, “Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information – Contractor Agreement,” which may be found at the following website: 

A copy of each signed and witnessed Non-Disclosure agreement shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer prior to performing any work under the Agreement.



The Subcontractor shall assure that each employee has completed the NIH Computer Security Awareness Training () prior to performing any work under this contract.



In addition, the Subcontractor shall submit a roster, by name, position, e-mail address, phone number, and responsibility, of all staff (including 2nd tier subcontractor staff) working under the Subcontract who will develop, have the ability to access, or host and/or maintain a Federal information system(s).  The roster shall be submitted to SAIC-F within 14 calendar days of the effective date of the Subcontract along with scanned copies of the completed training certificates for each staff member.  Any revisions to the roster as a result of staffing changes shall be submitted to SAIC-F within 15 calendar days of the change.  Additional training certifications will then be due to be submitted to SAIC-F every 12-months thereafter on the anniversary date of contract award.

In addition, during all activities and operations on Government premises, the Subcontractor shall comply with DHHS, including National Institutes of Health (NIH), rules of conduct.  Should the Subcontractor have questions concerning these requirements or need of procedural guidance to ensure compliance they may contact the cognizant SAIC-Frederick, Inc. acquisition representative.



ARTICLE H.10.  HOTEL AND MOTEL FIRE SAFETY ACT OF 1990 (P.L. 101-391)



Pursuant to Public Law 101-391, no Federal funds may be used to sponsor or fund in whole or in part a meeting, convention, conference or training seminar that is conducted in, or that otherwise uses the rooms, facilities, or services of a place of public accommodation that do not meet the requirements of the fire prevention and control guidelines as described in the Public Law.  This restriction applies to public accommodations both foreign and domestic.  Public accommodations that meet the requirements can be accessed at:  



ARTICLE H.11.  FORCE MAJEURE



No nonperformance, failure, omission or delay of any terms or conditions of the Agreement by either Party in the performance of any obligation of this Agreement shall be deemed a breach of this Agreement or create any liability if the same shall arise from any cause or causes beyond the control of the Party, including, but not limited to, the following:  Acts of God; acts, omissions or delays in acting by any governmental authorities; rules, regulations or orders issued by any governmental authority or by any office, department, agency or instrumentality thereof; fires; storms; floods; earthquakes; accidents; wars; rebellions; insurrections; riots; invasions; or strikes and lockouts; and provided that the nonperforming or delayed Party provides to the other Party prompt written notice of the existence of and the reason for such nonperformance or delay and that such nonperformance, failure, omission or delay resulting from any one of the above causes is cured as soon as practicable after the occurrence of one or more of the above causes.	



ARTICLE H.12.  ARRA REPORTING



For purposes of ARRA reporting compliance as delineated in FAR Clause 52.204-11, SAIC-F has developed an ARRA set of Representations & Certifications, which may be found at RFP -- Attachment 5.  All fields must be completed and will be verified by the Subcontract Specialist. Any failure to complete the ARRA Certifications will result in ineligibility of award.



As Prime Contractor, SAIC-F will enter subcontractor reporting information into www.FederalReporting.gov and shall do so as required in FAR 52.204-11 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009).  To facilitate this reporting, Subcontractor must log onto the following website  and enter the required data on a (calendar) quarterly basis by the fifth business day following the end of the final month of each quarter.  Subcontractor will need to create a log-in identification which will be used each time data is entered. This ARRA reporting is considered a subcontract deliverable and failure to comply may be considered a breach of this subcontract subject to the remedies of SAIC-F Terms and Conditions Section 26.



IMPORTANT:

You will be sent a notification with instructions on how to sign up for an account to use the site and information about how to use the site.  Please do not contact the Web Master until this notification has been sent, as they will be unable to provide you with access to the system.


PART 2—CONTRACT CLAUSES



SECTION I—CONTRACT CLAUSES



ARTICLE I.1.  GENERAL CLAUSES 



A.	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES:



Where the words “Contracting Officer” or “Government” appear, it shall be understood to mean “the SAIC-Frederick Contracting Officer” or “Prime Contractor” provided; however, that such substitution in no way supersedes or diminishes any rights or responsibilities of the Government under public law, Federal Acquisition Regulations, or in the terms of the prime contract, including, but not limited to, the right to review, audit, and approve any records or procedures of the Subcontractor. Where the word “Contractor” appears, it shall be understood to mean “Subcontractor” and where “Contract” appears, it shall be understood to mean “Subcontract.”



This subcontract incorporates the following clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: .



	FEDERAL ACQUISITION REGULATION (FAR) (48 CFR CHAPTER 1) CLAUSES:





B.	DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATION (HHSAR) (48 CHAPTER 3) CLAUSES:



	This subcontract incorporates the following DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ACQUISITION REGULATION   HHSAR  48 Chapter 3 clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this address: 





[End of GENERAL CLAUSES]

 

ARTICLE I.2. CLAUSES PROVIDED IN FULL TEXT



FAR 52.204-11 American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Mar 2009). 

Definitions. As used in this clause— 

“Contract”, as defined in FAR 2.101, means a mutually binding legal relationship obligating the seller to furnish the supplies or services (including construction) and the buyer to pay for them. It includes all types of commitments that obligate the Government to an expenditure of appropriated funds and that, except as otherwise authorized, are in writing. In addition to bilateral instruments, contracts include (but are not limited to) awards and notices of awards; job orders or task letters issued under basic ordering agreements; letter contracts; orders, such as purchase orders, under which the contract becomes effective by written acceptance or performance; and bilateral contract modifications. Contracts do not include grants and cooperative agreements covered by 31 U.S.C. 6301, et seq. For discussion of various types of contracts, see FAR Part 16. 



“First-tier subcontract” means a subcontract awarded directly by a Federal Government prime contractor whose contract is funded by the Recovery Act. 



“Jobs created” means an estimate of those new positions created and filled, or previously existing unfilled positions that are filled, as a result of funding by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). This definition covers only prime contractor positions established in the United States and outlying areas (see definition in FAR 2.101). The number shall be expressed as “full-time equivalent” (FTE), calculated cumulatively as all hours worked divided by the total number of hours in a full-time schedule, as defined by the contractor. For instance, two full-time employees and one part-time employee working half days would be reported as 2.5 FTE in each calendar quarter. 



“Jobs retained” means an estimate of those previously existing filled positions that are retained as a result of funding by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). This definition covers only prime contractor positions established in the United States and outlying areas (see definition in FAR 2.101). The number shall be expressed as “full-time equivalent” (FTE), calculated cumulatively as all hours worked divided by the total number of hours in a full-time schedule, as defined by the contractor. For instance, two full-time employees and one part-time employee working half days would be reported as 2.5 FTE in each calendar quarter. 



“Total compensation” means the cash and noncash dollar value earned by the executive during the contractor’s past fiscal year of the following (for more information see 17 CFR 229.402(c)(2)): 



(1)	Salary and bonus. 

(2)	Awards of stock, stock options, and stock appreciation rights. Use the dollar amount recognized for financial statement reporting purposes with respect to the fiscal year in accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (Revised 2004) (FAS 123R), Shared Based Payments. 

(3)	Earnings for services under non-equity incentive plans. Does not include group life, health, hospitalization or medical reimbursement plans that do not discriminate in favor of executives, and are available generally to all salaried employees. 

(4)	Change in pension value. This is the change in present value of defined benefit and actuarial pension plans. 

(5)	Above-market earnings on deferred compensation which is not tax-qualified. 

(6)	Other compensation. For example, severance, termination payments, value of life insurance paid on behalf of the employee, perquisites or property if the value for the executive exceeds $10,000. 



(b)	This contract requires the contractor to provide products and/or services that are funded under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Recovery Act). Section 1512(c) of the Recovery Act requires each contractor to report on its use of Recovery Act funds under this contract. These reports will be made available to the public.

(c)	Reports from contractors for all work funded, in whole or in part, by the Recovery Act, and for which an invoice is submitted prior to June 30, 2009, are due no later than July 10, 2009. Thereafter, reports shall be submitted no later than the 10th day after the end of each calendar quarter. 

(d)	The Contractor shall report the following information, using the online reporting tool available at www.FederalReporting.gov. 



(1)	The Government contract and order number, as applicable. 

(2)	The amount of Recovery Act funds invoiced by the contractor for the reporting period. A cumulative amount from all the reports submitted for this action will be maintained by the government’s on-line reporting tool. 

(3)	A list of all significant services performed or supplies delivered, including construction, for which the contractor invoiced in this calendar quarter. 

(4)	Program or project title, if any. 

(5)	A description of the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the contract, including significant deliverables and, if appropriate, associated units of measure. 

(6)	An assessment of the contractor’s progress towards the completion of the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the contract (i.e., not started, less than 50 percent completed, completed 50 percent or more, or fully completed). This covers the contract (or portion thereof) funded by the Recovery Act. 

(7)	A narrative description of the employment impact of work funded by the Recovery Act. This narrative should be cumulative for each calendar quarter and only address the impact on the contractor’s workforce. At a minimum, the contractor shall provide— 



A brief description of the types of jobs created and jobs retained in the United States and outlying areas (see definition in FAR 2.101). This description may rely on job titles, broader labor categories, or the contractor’s existing practice for describing jobs as long as the terms used are widely understood and describe the general nature of the work; and 

An estimate of the number of jobs created and jobs retained by the prime contractor, in the United States and outlying areas. A job cannot be reported as both created and retained. 



(8)	Names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated officers of the Contractor for the calendar year in which the contract is awarded if— 



In the Contractor’s preceding fiscal year, the Contractor received— 



(A)	80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and

(B)	$25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants) and cooperative agreements; and 



The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 () or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 



(9)	For subcontracts valued at less than $25,000 or any subcontracts awarded to an individual, or subcontracts awarded to a subcontractor that in the previous tax year had gross income under $300,000, the Contractor shall only report the aggregate number of such first tier subcontracts awarded in the quarter and their aggregate total dollar amount.

(10)	For any first-tier subcontract funded in whole or in part under the Recovery Act, that is over $25,000 and not subject to reporting under paragraph 9, the contractor shall require the subcontractor to provide the information described in (i), (ix), (x), and (xi) below to the contractor for the purposes of the quarterly report. The contractor shall advise the subcontractor that the information will be made available to the public as required by section 1512 of the Recovery Act. The contractor shall provide detailed information on these first-tier subcontracts as follows: 



Unique identifier (DUNS Number) for the subcontractor receiving the award and for the subcontractor’s parent company, if the subcontractor has a parent company. 

Name of the subcontractor. 

Amount of the subcontract award. 

Date of the subcontract award. 

The applicable North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code. 

Funding agency. 

A description of the products or services (including construction) being provided under the subcontract, including the overall purpose and expected outcomes or results of the subcontract. 

 Subcontract number (the contract number assigned by the prime contractor). 

Subcontractor’s physical address including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district if applicable.

Subcontract primary performance location including street address, city, state, and country. Also include the nine-digit zip code and congressional district if applicable. 

Names and total compensation of each of the subcontractor’s five most highly compensated officers, for the calendar year in which the subcontract is awarded if— 



(A)	In the subcontractor’s preceding fiscal year, the subcontractor received— 



(1)	80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), and cooperative agreements; and 

(2)	$25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and subgrants), and cooperative agreements; and 



(B)	The public does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 () or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.



FAR 52.227-11 Patent Rights—Retention by the Contractor 



As prescribed in 27.303(a), insert the following clause:



PATENT RIGHTS—RETENTION BY THE CONTRACTOR  (DEC 2007)



(j) Communications. 

All invention disclosures and requests for greater rights shall be sent to the Contracting Officer. Additionally, a copy of all invention disclosures, confirmatory licenses to the government, face page of the patent applications, waivers and other routine communications should send to the Contracting Officer  and the Director, Office of Extramural Research Administration, Division of Extramural Inventions and Technology Resources, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1136, Bethesda, MD 20892-7750 or  citing the SAIC-Frederick, Inc. contract number HHSN261200800001E.



(END OF CLAUSE)




PART 3—LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS



SECTION J—LIST OF ATTACHMENTS



ARTICLE J.1.  ATTACHMENTS






PART 4—REPRESENTATIONS AND INSTRUCTIONS





SECTION K—REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFEROR’S



In order to be considered responsive an Offer provided in response to this solicitation must include complete and accurate Representations and Certifications in one of the two manners indicated in this section.  If the Subcontractor is registered and current with the Online Representations and Certification Application (ORCA) website ( ) then only the provision of a current Dun & Bradstreet (DUNS) number is required and should be provided below.  If the Subcontractor is not registered and current with ORCA, the Subcontractor must submit a completed and signed hard copy of the Representations and Certifications which may be accessed and printed from .

.



Please indicate your organization’s status by checking the appropriate response:



Our organization is registered and current with ORCA; our DUNS number is _______________ .



Our organization is NOT registered with ORCA; we have submitted one copy of the Representations and Certifications with our proposal.





SECTION L —  INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS



ARTICLE L.1.  PROPOSAL PREPARATION INSTRUCTIONS



A.	Authorizing Official:



An official authorized to contractually bind your organization must sign the proposals submitted.



B.	Format:



Proposals shall be submitted electronically via e-mail to Kimberly A. Iman at .  The files shall be saved and submitted as both Adobe Acrobat and Microsoft Word documents and named as follows:



	Volume 1 – Solicitation

This file shall contain the solicitation document with all items completed as requested in Article L.2.  Volume 1 – Solicitation proposal instructions below and be named Volume 1 – Solicitation.



Volume 2 – Technical Proposal

This file shall contain the technical proposal as requested in Article L.3.  Volume 2 – Technical Proposal instructions below and be named Volume 2 – Technical Proposal.



Volume 3 – Price Proposal

This file shall contain the price proposal as requested in Article L.4.  Volume 3 – Price Proposal instructions below and be named Volume 3 – Price Proposal.



Pricing data SHALL NOT be shown in the forwarding letter or in the technical proposal; however, this data shall be included in the price proposal.



Elaborate brochures or other presentations beyond those sufficient to present a complete and effective response to the RFP are not desired.



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. reserves the right to award a subcontract based on initial offer received without discussion of such offer.  Accordingly, each initial offer should be submitted with the most favorable terms from both a technical and price perspective.



Proposal preparation costs are the responsibility of the Offeror.



ALL QUESTIONS OR REQUESTS FOR CLARIFICATIONS MUST BE E-MAILED TO Kimberly A. Iman at   BEFORE 12:00 P.M., EASTERN STANDARD TIME, JANUARY 04, 2011.  No telephone calls will be accepted.  Questions or requests directed to any other individual or outside the directives of this Solicitation will not be considered valid, nor will there be a response provided.



ALL PROPOSALS MUST BE RECEIVED NO LATER THAN 4:00 P.M., EST, JANUARY  24, 2011. Proposals shall be submitted electronically via e-mail to Kimberly A. Iman at  .



ARTICLE L.2.  VOLUME 1 – SOLICITATION 



The Offeror shall electronically submit the solicitation in its entirety with the following items completed and included:



Signed Cover Page with Boxes 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20 completed including the Offeror’s DUNS Number.

Pages 7 and 8 completed designating Offeror Authorized Representative, Offeror Authorized Invoice Administrator, and Key Personnel.

Section K – Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of Offerors completed and signed (see Section K on Page 24).

Completed and signed ARRA Representations and Certifications (see Attachment 5 on page 50) 

If the total price proposed exceeds $650,000, Attachment 3 – Subcontracting Certification needs to be completed and submitted with offer.

A completed Form W-9 is required to be submitted with Offer.  All Offeror’s MUST be registered with the Central Contractors Registration (CCR).  Offerors may register with CCR at .  The address included on the W-9 MUST match the address registered at CCR, ORCA, and/or included on hard copy of Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of Offerors.

Provide appropriate certifications that any individual(s) working on CBIIT Program Level Workspace, Architecture, or Governance teams or similar efforts at the  FDA have not participated in the proposal preparation as outlined in Article B.1.  

Provide appropriate firewall certifications as outlined in Article B.1.

Provide a Certificate of Insurance as outlined in Article H.7.



ARTICLE L.3.  VOLUME 2 – TECHNICAL PROPOSAL 

Attached is the suggested format in which to submit your technical proposal:  





Executive Summary:  (2 Page Limit)

Brief description and qualifications for this solicitation of your organization/team, including any lower tier subcontractors and their roles. 

The purpose and anticipated end result of this proposal.

Technical and Management Approach Discriminators.



Technical Approach:  (20 Page Limit)

Provide your understanding of what needs to be done, the scope of work, the estimated length of time for the work to be finished, the challenges, and how you are going to address those challenges.

Describe a sound technical approach to the proposed work, including a demonstrated understanding of the open source development work and other deliverables needed for the CTR as described in the RFP, as well as business and process challenges required for accomplishing proposed tasks.

Discuss a preferred approach to modeling for this project, and link that discussion with a plan for developing a logical data model and physical database model.

Identify any critical technology challenges or risks involved in completing this work and your proposed methods for addressing them to meet project goals and objectives.

Describe any unique aspects of the approach, and why you believe it will be the most efficient and effective way of achieving project objectives.  

Describe how this approach will meet both project and overall CBIIT objectives as described in the CBIIT Compliance Section of the SOO.

Propose the software development process and lifecycle you plan to use.  Specify the number of iterations for iterative or incremental developments, tasks or timelines in each iteration and dependencies among major tasks.  

Explain why your process is the most efficient and effective way to accomplish project objectives.

Detail the QA approach and safeguards you will take.

Identify the set of tools that will be used to execute all project phases, from development work through staging, QA, and production deployment.   

Explain the needs each tool fulfills.  Tools that enable tracing of requirements to design and test are encouraged.



Team and Key Personnel:  (10 Page Limit)

Introduce your company and team and give an overview of the capabilities it will bring to address this solicitation.

Describe your organization chart to show chain of command and lines of communication.

Describe the key personnel who will be assigned to manage performance and supervise the work under this proposed subcontract. Information is required which will show each key person’s general qualifications and recent experience with similar projects or contracts. For those key personnel who will not be assigned full time to this proposed subcontract, show the approximate percentage of time each will be available for this proposed subcontract.  

At least three (3) key personnel are required and should be clearly indicated.  Resume summaries for key personnel should be included in this section, and full resumes in the appendix.

Describe your project management approach and what control mechanism you can put in place to track progress and ensure project schedules will be met in according to agreed upon schedules.



Experience and Past Performance:  (10 Page Limit)

Describe the teams overall experience with developments, processes, and technologies similar to that described in this solicitation.  Provide a description of at least three (3) projects which have been successfully performed in the past which indicate the ability to perform on this effort.  At least one of these projects should have been performed for an organization other than CBIIT or SAIC-F.    Clearly indicate who on your team performed, what role was played on each of these projects, and the success criteria that were used to judge the project.  Summaries shall be provided and more complete descriptions may be included in the appendix.



Project Plan and Work Breakdown Structure:  (5 Page Limit)

Describe in summary form the set of tasks that will be performed in order to accomplish project objectives.

Detail the methods for producing deliverables, allocation of staff and other resources necessary to produce deliverables and timelines.

Provide a draft Project Plan in MS Project format as a separate attachment (no page limit).  This should contain tasks that demonstrate how objectives described in the SOO will be accomplished.   The draft Project Plan shall show tasks, dependences, and milestones, any milestone reviews as requested in the RFP, as well as any requested contractor supplied dates for deliverables.



Management Plan and Reporting:  (10 Page Limit)

Describe your project management approach and what control mechanism you can put in place to track progress and ensure project schedules will be met in accordance with agreed upon schedules.

Describe your overall risk mitigation strategy.

Provide an initial risk table.  This should include a list of project risks, an estimation of the severity of the risk (H,M,L), and a brief risk mitigation approach for that risk.

Describe management controls to be put in place for subcontractor management, if lower tier subcontractors are a part of the proposed team.



Financial:

Describe your mechanism of how you will control the budget and costs. 

Describe your budget narrative; cost effectiveness, line item budgets etc.



ARTICLE L.4.  VOLUME 3 – PRICE PROPOSAL 



Offeror shall submit a price proposal based on the template provided in Attachment 4 for the period of performance through September 30, 2013.  Costs shall be broken out for the appropriate level of task according to the preliminary project plan included with this proposal.  Offeror shall submit a price proposal based on all of the objectives/functionalities and process guidelines specified in this RFP.  The price proposal shall indicate how many iterations this project needs under RUP process, specify task items, milestones, deliverables under each iteration, propose price for each milestone and deliverables, and suggest payment schedule that will tie to the deliverables.   The successful offeror’s price proposal will become a part of the resultant subcontract as Attachment 4 – Price Schedule and Basis of Estimate for Base Period of Performance.

Offerors shall provide cost information sufficient enough to determine the realism of the proposal.  At a minimum this shall include an itemized listing of all labor, travel, equipment, subcontracting costs (if any), supplies, and other direct costs.  All labor costs shall be listed for each position in the proposal; all labor costs shall be broken down into direct and indirect costs.  All other costs listed shall also be broken down into actual proposed costs and associated overhead charges.



ARTICLE L.5.  POINT OF CONTACT



The Subcontracts Specialist for this solicitation is identified below.



Kimberly A. Iman

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

P.O. Box B 

Frederick, Maryland 21702-1201 

Phone:	301-228-4033; Fax: 301-228-4037

E-mail:  



SECTION  M  --  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



ARTICLE M.1.  EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD



The assessment of Offers received in response to this solicitation will be carefully considered against the needs of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. (SAIC-Frederick) and the NCI Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology.  This assessment is not intended to be a solely mechanical or mathematical analysis of an Offer, but rather the product of both objective and subjective measurements and judgments of the source selection officials after consideration of the relevant information.



Basis for Award:  



SAIC-Frederick will award a subcontract resulting from this RFP to the responsible organization whose offer conforms to the RFP and will be the most advantageous to the SAIC-Frederick, price and other factors considered.  



Potential Award without Discussions:



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. reserves the right to award a subcontract without discussions if the Contracting Officer determines that the initial prices are fair and reasonable and that discussions are not necessary. 



Therefore, the Offeror’s initial offer should contain the Offeror’s best terms from a price and technical standpoint.  However, SAIC-Frederick reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary.  SAIC-Frederick may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest price; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.



Evaluation Factors:



In descending order of relative importance, the following evaluation factors shall be used to evaluate the prospective Offers:



  Technical Approach

   Team and Key Personnel Experience

   Past Performance

   Project Plan and Work Breakdown Structure

   Management and Reporting

   Cost Reasonableness





1.  Technical Approach:

The offeror demonstrates good understanding of the scope, objectives, and challenges of this project, including the tasks required to implement the CTR and the interdependencies between them.

The proposed approach is capable of meeting project objectives and milestone requirements as stated in the SOO.

The proposed approach is capable of supporting the requirements for the system, both functional and non-functional.

The proposed approach demonstrates an understanding of the caBIG® program and is consistent with CBIIT architectures, infrastructure, policy, procedures, and compliance guidelines.

The offeror’s approach demonstrates capabilities and experience in the use of technologies including service oriented architecture (SOA), web technologies, security, and service-based business processes and models.



2.  Team and Key Personnel Experience:

Qualification, relevant experience, and availability of key personnel.

Strong capabilities and experience in Java/web development, data analysis and warehousing, UI design and implementation, analysis in the domain of clinical trials data.

Evidence has been provided that Key Personnel have successfully performed in the past in the role proposed.

Key personnel are bid at a level of effort commensurate with their proposed role.



3.  Past Performance:

The Offeror has demonstrated experience in the relevant technologies and procedures required to execute this project. 

Past performance examples are for projects of similar size, scope, and technical objectives.

Evidence of successful performance on these projects has been provided.



4.	Project Plan and Work Breakdown Structure 

The project management plan effectively addresses communications, schedules, resource management, and deployment issues.

The Project Plan is sufficient to meet SOO objectives and produce deliverables according to the project schedule.

Project schedule is reasonable given the tasks proposed.

Milestones are consistent with SOO guidance.



5.    Management Plan and Reporting:

Mechanism by which budget and costs are controlled has been described.

Project risks have been identified and risk mitigation strategies are adequate.

Subcontractor roles are defined and subcontractor management controls are adequate.

Offeror’s understanding of and plan for meeting the ARRA reporting requirements for this project.



6.   Cost Reasonableness

Costs proposed are commensurate with the technical tasks bid.

Cost reasonableness and total price will be evaluated.


ATTACHMENT 1





SAIC-FREDERICK TERMS AND CONDITIONS



October 2007


SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation





TERMS AND CONDITIONS

October 2007



1.	GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP

This Order is made by SAIC-Frederick, Inc., a Subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation under its contract with the National Cancer Institute at Frederick (NCI-Frederick).  The provisions and clauses contained herein are influenced by and reflect the relationship of the parties in that contract, which was awarded and is administered under the provision of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR).  There is no privity of contract between the Seller and the Government. 



GENERAL RELATIONSHIP

The Seller is not an employee of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. for any purpose whatsoever.  Seller agrees that in all matters relating to this Order it shall be acting as an independent contractor and shall assume and pay all liabilities and perform all obligations imposed with respect to the performance of this Order.  Seller shall have no right, power or authority to create any obligation, expressed or implied, on behalf of Buyer and/or Buyer’s customers and shall have no authority to represent Buyer as an agent.



DEFINITIONS

Buyer – SAIC-Frederick, Inc. 



Seller – The party (contractor) receiving the award from SAIC-Frederick, Inc.



Prime Contract − The Government contract under which this Order is issued (see paragraph 1 entitled "Government Relationship").



NCI Government Contracting Officer −The NCI-Frederick person with the authority to interpret, modify, administer, and/or otherwise make decisions with regard to the Prime Contract". This term includes authorized representatives of the NCI-Frederick Contracting Officer within their delegated authority. 



Contracting Officer – The SAIC-Frederick, Inc. person with the authority to enter into and administer Orders.  The term includes authorized representatives of the Contracting Officer acting within their delegated authority.



Order – The contractual agreement between SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and the Seller.



Special Definitions – See paragraph 4 for the special definitions that apply in the use of the solicitation and award clauses of this Order. 



SOLICITATION AND AWARD CLAUSES – SPECIAL DEFINITIONS

FAR clauses included in this Order, including any solicitation document, shall be interpreted as follows:



Unless a purposeful distinction is made clear and the context of the clause requires retention of the original definition, the term “Contractor” shall mean Seller, the term “Contract” shall mean this Order, the term “Subcontractor” shall mean Subcontractors of Seller at any tier, and the terms “Government”, “Contracting Officer” and equivalent phrases shall mean SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and SAIC-Frederick’s Contracting Officer, respectively.  It is intended that the referenced clauses shall apply to Seller in such manner as is necessary to reflect the position of Seller as a contractor to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to insure Seller’s obligations to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. and to the United States Government, and to enable SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to meet its obligations under its Prime Contract.



Full text of the referenced clauses may be found in the FAR (Code of Federal Regulation [CFR] Title 48), obtainable from the Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office (GPO), Washington, DC  20402 or online at .  Copies of the clauses will be furnished by the Contracting Officer upon request.



5.	ENTIRE AGREEMENT

This Order, including all attachments and/or documents incorporated by reference by Buyer, shall constitute the entire agreement between Buyer and Seller.  No other document (including Seller’s proposal, quotation or acknowledgement forms, etc.) shall be a part of this Order, even if referred to, unless specifically agreed to in writing by Buyer. No right that Buyer has regarding this Order may be waived or modified except in writing by Buyer.



6.	ACCEPTANCE AND MODIFICATION OF TERMS

Acceptance of this Order by Seller may be made by signing the acknowledgement copy hereof or by partial performance hereunder, and any such acceptance shall constitute an unqualified agreement to all terms and conditions set forth herein unless otherwise modified in writing by the parties.  Any additions, deletions or differences in the terms proposed by Seller are objected to and hereby rejected, unless Buyer agrees otherwise in writing.  No additional or different terms and conditions proposed by the Seller in accepting this Order shall be binding upon Buyer unless accepted in writing by Buyer and no other addition, alteration or modification to, and no waiver of any of the provisions herein contained shall be valid unless made in writing and executed by Buyer and Seller.  Seller shall perform in accordance with the Description/Quantity schedule set forth in this Order and all attachments thereto.



7.	LEGAL CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATIONS

This Order shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the principles of Federal Contract Law, and to the extent that Federal Contract Law is not dispositive, and the state law becomes applicable, the law of the State of Maryland shall apply.  



8.	COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS

Seller shall submit all certifications required by Buyer under this Order and shall at all times, at its own expense, comply with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, ordinances, administrative orders, rules or regulations.



9.	GIFTS

Seller shall not make or offer a gratuity or gift of any kind to Buyer’s employees or their families. Seller should note that the providing of gifts or attempting to provide gifts under government subcontracts might be a violation of the Anti-Kickback Act of 1986 (4 U.S.C. 51-58).



MARYLAND SALES AND USE TAX

The State of Maryland has issued Direct Payment Permit #3, effective date August 29, 1996, to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. that will be issued to vendors of NCI-Frederick for purchase of goods and services. A copy of this Permit is available to vendors upon request.  As a holder of a Direct Payment Permit, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. is authorized to make direct payment of sales and use tax to the State of Maryland.  Accordingly, sellers that provide goods and services to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. are relieved from collecting sales tax from SAIC-Frederick, Inc.  Therefore, sellers to SAIC-Frederick, Inc. shall not place a separate line item for tax on any invoice sent to SAIC-Frederick, Inc.  Please note that the Permit is not to be used by sellers to make purchases free of sales tax, nor shall the Permit be transferred or assigned.  



11.	BUYER FURNISHED DATA AND MATERIALS

Seller agrees that it will keep confidential and not disclose, disseminate or publish the features of any equipment, tools, gauges, patterns, designs, drawings, engineering data, computer programs and software or other technical or proprietary information furnished, loaned or bailed by Buyer hereunder (hereinafter collectively referred to as (items/information), and will use such items/information only in the performance of this Order or, if authorized, other orders from Buyer, and not otherwise without Buyer’s written consent.



All such items furnished, loaned or bailed by Buyer hereunder, or fabricated, manufactured, purchased, or otherwise acquired by Seller for the performance of this Order and specifically charged to Buyer, are the property of Buyer.



Upon completion, expiration or termination of this Order, Seller shall return all such items in good condition, reasonable wear only excepted, together with all spoiled and surplus items to Buyer, or make such other disposition thereof as may be directed or approved by Buyer.  Seller agrees to replace, at its expense, all such items not so returned. Seller shall make no charge for any storage, maintenance or retention of such items.  Seller shall bear all risk of loss for all such items in Seller’s possession.



Seller also agrees to use any designs or data contained or embodied in such items in accordance with any restrictive legends placed on such items by Buyer or any third party.  If Buyer furnishes any material, for fabrication hereunder, Seller agrees: (a)  not to substitute any other material for such fabrication with Buyer’s prior written consent, and (b) that title to such material shall not be affected by incorporation in or attachment to any other property.



12.	NOTICE OF DELAY 

Seller agrees to immediately notify Buyer in writing of any actual or potential delay in Sellers performance under this Order. Such notice shall, at a minimum, describe the cause, effect, duration and corrective action proposed by Seller to address the problem. Seller shall give prompt written notice to the Buyer of all changes to such conditions.



CHANGES AND SUSPENSION

Buyer may, by written notice to Seller at any time, make changes within the general scope of this Order in any one or more of the following:  (a) drawings, designs or specifications; (b) quantity; (c) time or place of delivery; (d) method of shipment or packing; and (e) the quantity of Buyer furnished property.  Buyer may, for any reason, direct Seller to suspend, in whole or in part, delivery of goods or performance of services hereunder for such period of time as may be determined by Buyer in its sole discretion.  If any such change or suspension causes a material increase or decrease in the cost of, or the time required for the performance of any part of the work under this Order, an equitable adjustment shall be made in the Order price or delivery schedule, or both, provided Seller shall have notified Buyer in writing of any claim for such adjustment within twenty (20) days from the date of notification of the change or suspension from Buyer.  No such adjustment or any other modification of the terms of this Order will be allowed unless authorized by Buyer by means of a written modification to the Order.  Seller shall proceed with the work as changed without interruption and without awaiting settlement of any such claim.



14.	ADVERTISING

Seller agrees that prior to the issuance of any publicity or publication of any advertising that in either case makes reference to this Order, or to Buyer, Seller will obtain the written permission of Buyer with respect thereto.



15.	CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION

Seller shall not at any time, even after the expiration or termination of this Order, use or disclose to any person for any purpose other than to perform this Order, any information it receives, directly or indirectly from Buyer in connection with this Order, except information that is or becomes publicly available, or is rightfully received by Seller from a third party without restriction. Upon request by Buyer, Seller shall return to Buyer all documentation and other material containing such information.



16.	INDEMNIFICATION

Seller shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Buyer from and against any and all claims, liabilities, damages, losses, causes of action, lawsuits, costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys’ fees and litigation costs incurred in connection therewith and regardless of legal theory (hereinafter referred to as ”claims”), occasioned wholly or in part by any act or omission of Seller or any of its lower tiers, or their employees, agents or representatives arising out of or relating to this Order.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Seller’s obligations under this Section shall not apply to any claims that are finally determined by a court of competent jurisdiction to be occasioned solely by the negligence or willful misconduct of Buyer. 



INFRINGEMENT INDEMNITIES

Seller shall, at its expense, indemnify, defend, save and hold Buyer and its successors, affiliates, officers, directors, employees, agents, independent contractors and customers, and the officers, agents and employees of such customers (hereinafter collectively referred to in this section as “Buyer”)  harmless from and against any and all damages, liabilities, penalties, interest and costs awarded against and reasonable expenses, including without limitation attorneys’ fees that result or arise out of or relate to, in whole or part, any claims, suits, proceedings, actions, causes of action and demands brought against the Buyer asserting that the deliverables, including without delivery,  including without limitation all software, goods or services, or any part thereof, furnished under this Order, or the creation, delivery, use modification, reproduction, release, performance, display or disclosure, including  without limitation resale or sublicensing thereof, constitutes an infringement of any patent, trademark, trade secret, copyright or other proprietary or intellectual property right or rights of privacy or publicity.  In the event such goods or services or use thereof are enjoined in whole or in part, Seller shall at its expense and Buyer’s option undertake one of the following: (a) obtain for Buyer the right to continue the use of such goods or services; (b) in a manner acceptable to Buyer, substitute equivalent goods or services or make modifications thereto so as to avoid such infringement and extend this indemnity thereto; or (c)  refund to Buyer an amount equal to the purchase price for such goods or services plus any excess costs or expenses incurred in obtaining substitute goods or services from another source.



Notwithstanding this Section 17, should the deliverables or portion thereof be held to constitute an infringement and use as contemplated by this Order  be enjoined or be threatened to be enjoined, Seller shall notify Buyer and immediately, at Seller’s expense; (a) procure for Buyer the right to continue to use the deliverables or portion thereof with a version that is non-infringing, provided that the replacement or modified version meets any applicable specifications to Buyer’s satisfaction.  If (a) or (b) are not available to Seller, in addition to any damages or expenses reimbursed under this section, Seller shall refund to Buyer all amounts paid to Seller by Buyer under this Order. 



18.	NON-WAIVER OF RIGHTS

The failure of Buyer to insist upon strict performance of any of the terms and conditions in this Order or to exercise any rights or remedies, shall not be construed as a waiver of its rights to assert any of same or to rely on any such terms or conditions at any time thereafter.  Acceptance or payment of any part of the Order shall not bind Buyer to accept future shipments or performance of services nor deprive Buyer of the right to return goods already accepted or for which Buyer has made payment.  Acceptance or payment shall not be deemed to be a waiver of Buyer’s right to cancel or return all or any part of the goods because of failure to conform to the Order or by reason of defects, whether latent or patent, or other breach of warranty, or to make any claim for damages of any and all kind. 



19.	INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION

If this Order entails effort on a Government installation, including any off-site buildings owned or leased by the Government, the Seller must provide and maintain the minimum amounts of insurance stated below.



At Buyer’s request, Seller agrees to provide Certificates of Insurance evidencing that the required insurance coverages are in force and providing not less than thirty days written notice prior to any cancellation or restrictive modification of the policies.  



Further, the required insurance coverages below shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any other insurance that may be maintained by Buyer.  The below required coverages and their limits in no way lessen nor affect Seller’s other obligations or liabilities set forth in this Order.



Seller agrees to purchase and maintain at its own expense the following insurance coverages with minimum limits as stated:



Statutory Workers’ Compensation and Employer’s Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per occurrence covering its employees, including a waiver of subrogation obtained from the carrier in favor of Buyer; 



Commercial General Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per each occurrence and $2 Million in this Aggregate covering bodily injury, broad form property damage, personal injury, products and completed operations, contractual liability and independent contractors’ liability.  Buyer, its officers and employees shall be included as Additional Insureds and a waiver of subrogation shall be obtained from the carrier in favor of Buyer;



Automobile Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million Combined Single Limit for Bodily Injury covering use of all owned, non-owned, and hired vehicles.  Buyer, its officers and employees shall be included as Additional Insureds on the policy;



Professional Liability in an amount no less than $1 Million per occurrence covering damages caused by any acts, errors, and omissions arising out of the professional services performed by Seller, or any person for whom the Seller is legally liable.  To the extent that coverage for Seller’s services are not excluded in (ii) above by virtue of being deemed not of a professional nature, this requirement does not apply.



All-Risk Property Insurance in an amount adequate to replace property, including supplies covered by this Order, of Buyer and/or Buyer’s customer that may be in the possession or control of Seller.  Buyer shall be named as a Loss Payee with respect to loss or damage to said property and/or supplies furnished by Buyer.



The required insurance coverages above shall be primary and non-contributing with respect to any other insurance that may be maintained by Buyer and notwithstanding any provision contained herein, Seller, and its employees, agents, representatives, consultants, Subcontractors and suppliers, are not insured by the Buyer, and are not covered under any policy of insurance that the Buyer has obtained or has in place.



Any self-insured retentions, deductibles and exclusions in coverage in the policies required under this Article shall be assumed by, for the account of, and at the sole risk of Seller which provides the insurance and to the extent applicable shall be paid by Seller.  In no event shall the liability of Seller be limited to the extent of any insurance or the minimum limits required herein.



20.	EXPORT CONTROL COMPLIANCE FOR FOREIGN PERSONS

Seller shall not, nor shall Seller authorize or permit its employees, agents or lower tiers to disclose, export or re-export any Buyer information, or any process, product or services that is produced under this Order, without prior notification to Buyer and complying with all applicable Federal, State and local laws, regulations and ordinances, including the regulations of the U.S. Department of Commerce and/or the U.S. Department of State.  In addition, Seller agrees to immediately notify Buyer if Seller is listed on any of the Department of State, Treasury or Commerce proscribed persons or destinations lists, or if Seller’s export privileges are otherwise denied, suspended or revoked in whole or in part.



Under its contract with NCI-Frederick, Buyer conducts research activities that include export-controlled technology that cannot be readily segregated.  Buyer may require Seller (including any lower tiers) to place restrictions on their work force performing onsite at SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to protected individuals as established under the guidelines of the Commerce Department Export Administration Regulations (EAR) and the State Department International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).



Contractors (including any lower tiers) may be required to disclose the status of personnel proposed to perform work onsite prior to award.



Contractors shall include in all agreements and related documents with lower tiers, notice to third parties that the export of any process, goods and/or technical data from the United States may require an export control license from the U.S. Government and that, failure to obtain such export control license may result in termination of Order, and/or criminal liability under U.S. laws. 



21.	ASSIGNMENT



Neither this Order nor any interest herein may be assigned, in whole or in part, without the prior written consent of Buyer except that the Seller shall have the right to assign this Order to any successor of such party by way of merger or consolidation or the acquisition of substantially all of the business and assets of the Seller relating to the subject matter of this Order.  This right shall be retained provided that such successor shall expressly assume all of the obligations and liabilities of the Seller under this Order, and that the Seller shall remain liable and responsible to Buyer for the performance and observance of all such obligations.



Notwithstanding the foregoing, any amounts due the Seller may be assigned in accordance with the provisions of the clause 52.232-23, Assignment of Claims.



In the event the prime contract of SAIC-Frederick, Inc. with the Government is succeeded by a successor contractor selected by the Government, this Order may be assigned to the successor contractor.



22.	DISPUTES

(A) If a decision relating to the Prime Contract is made by the NCI-Frederick Contracting Officer and such decision is also related to this Order, said decision, if binding upon Buyer under the Prime Contract shall in turn be binding upon Buyer and Seller with respect to such matter; provided, however, that if Seller disagrees with any such decision made by the NCI Contracting Officer and Buyer elects not to appeal any such decision, Seller shall have the right reserved to Buyer under the Prime Contract with the Government to prosecute a timely appeal in the name of Buyer, as permitted by the contract or by law, Seller to bear its own legal and other costs.  If Buyer elects not to appeal any such decision, Buyer agrees to notify Seller in a timely fashion after receipt of such decision and to assist Seller in its prosecution of any such appeal in every reasonable manner.  If Buyer elects to appeal any such decision of the NCI Contracting Officer, Buyer agrees to furnish Seller promptly of a copy of such appeal. Any decision upon appeal, if binding upon Buyer, shall in turn be binding upon Seller.  Pending the making of any decision, either by the NCI Contracting Officer or on appeal, Seller shall proceed diligently with performance of this Order.



If, as a result of any decision or judgment whish is binding upon Seller and Buyer, as provided above, Buyer is unable to obtain payment or reimbursement from the Government under the Prime Contract for, or is required to refund or credit to the Government, any amount with respect to any item or matter for which the Buyer has reimbursed or paid Seller, Seller shall, on demand, promptly repay such amount to Buyer. Additionally, pending the final conclusion of any appeal hereunder, Seller shall, on demand promptly repay any such amount to Buyer.  Buyer's maximum liability for any matter connected with or related to this Order which was properly the subject of a claim against the Government under the Prime Contract shall not exceed the amount of the Buyer's recovery from the Government.



Seller agrees to provide certification that data supporting any claim made by Seller hereunder is made in good faith and that the supporting data is accurate and complete to the best of the Seller's knowledge or belief, all in accordance with the requirements of the Contracts Disputes Act of 1978 (41USC601-613) and implementing regulations. If any claim of Seller is determined to be based on upon fraud or misrepresentation, Seller agrees to defend, indemnify, and hold Buyer harmless for any and all liability, loss, cost, or expense resulting there from.



Any dispute not addressed in paragraph (A) above, will be subject to paragraph (B) as described below.



(B) Buyer and Seller agree to first enter into negotiations to resolve any controversy, claim or dispute (“dispute”) arising under or relating to this Order.  The parties agree to negotiate in good faith to reach a mutually agreeable resolution of such dispute within a reasonable period of time.  If good faith negotiations are unsuccessful, Buyer and Seller agree to resolve the dispute by binding and final arbitration in accordance with the Commercial Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect.  The arbitration shall take place in the County of Frederick, State of Maryland.  The arbitrator(s) shall be bound to follow the provisions of this Order in resolving the dispute, and may not award punitive damages.  The decision of the arbitrator(s) shall be final and binding on the parties, and any award of the arbitrator(s) may be entered or enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.



Seller hereby waives any immunity, sovereign or otherwise, that it would otherwise have to such jurisdiction and agrees that its rights, obligations, and liabilities hereunder shall be determined in the same manner and to the same extent as those of a private litigant under like circumstances.



All costs of the arbitration shall be shared equally between the Parties, but the Parties specifically agree that each Party shall bear the expense of any costs incurred by it for its own counsel, experts, witnesses, preparation of documents, presentations, and logistics related to the proceedings.



Pending any decision, appeal or judgment referred to in this provision or the settlement of any dispute arising under this Order, Seller shall proceed diligently with the performance of this Order.



23.	NOTIFICATION OF DEBARMENT/SUSPENSION

By acceptance of this Order either in writing or by performance, Seller certifies that as of the date of award of this Order neither the Seller, lower tiers, nor any of its principals, is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by the Federal Government. Further, Seller shall provide immediate written notice to the Buyer in the event that during performance of this Order the Seller or any of its principals is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment by the Federal Government.



24.	QUALITY ASSURANCE/INSPECTION

All goods furnished and services performed pursuant hereto shall be subject to inspection and test by Buyer at all reasonable times and places, during the Order term, and in any event, prior to Final Acceptance as that term is defined in the Statement of Work.  No inspection made prior to Final Acceptance shall relieve Seller from responsibility for defects or other to meet the failure requirements of this Order.  In the event that goods furnished or services supplied are not in accordance with the Statement of Work and Schedule or other requirements.  Buyer may require Seller to promptly correct, repair, replace or re-perform the goods or services.  The cost of correction, repair, replacement, or re-performance shall be determined under Section 7 of this Order.  If Seller fails to proceed with reasonable promptness to perform the required correction, repair, replacement, or re-performance, Buyer may terminate the Order for default.  If Seller is unable to accomplish the foregoing, then Buyer may procure such materials and services from another source or perform such services in-house and charge to Seller’s account all costs, expenses and damages associated therewith.  Buyer’s approval of designs furnished by Seller shall not relieve Seller of its obligations hereunder.



25.	ORDER OF PRECEDENCE

In the event of an inconsistency or conflict between these SAIC Terms and Conditions and the Order issued, the inconsistency or conflict shall be resolved by giving precedence in the following order:



1)	The Order including SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Standard Terms and Conditions, Exhibits thereto and any provisions.

2)	Specifications and/or drawings.

3)	Other documents or exhibits when attached.



26.	TERMINATION



Termination for Convenience



Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Order, in whole or in part, at any time, without cause, by providing written notice to Seller.  Upon receiving notice of such termination, Seller shall:



a)	stop all work on this Order on the date and to the extent specified;

	b)	place no further contracts hereunder except as may be necessary for completing such portions of the 	Order that have not been terminated; and

c)	terminate all contracts to the extent that they may relate to portions of the Order that have been terminated; and

d)	protect all property in which Buyer has or may acquire an interest and deliver such property to Buyer.



Within twenty (20) days from such termination, Seller may submit to Buyer its written claim for termination charges in the form prescribed by Buyer.  Failure to submit such claim within such time shall constitute a waiver of all claims and a release of all Buyer’s liability arising out of such termination.  Under no circumstances shall Seller be entitled to anticipatory or lost profits.



Buyer reserves the right to verify claims hereunder and Seller shall make available to Buyer, upon its request, all relevant, non-proprietary books and records for inspection and audit (e.g. time cards and receipts).  If Seller fails to afford Buyer its rights hereunder, Seller shall be deemed to have relinquished its claim.



Termination for Default



1)	Buyer may, by written notice of default to Seller, terminate the whole or any part of this Order, in any one of the following circumstances:



Seller fails to make delivery of the goods or to perform the services within time specified  herein or any extension thereof; or

Seller fails to perform any of the other provisions of this Order in accordance with its terms and does not cure such failure within a period of ten (10) days after receipt of notice from Buyer specifying such failure; or

Seller becomes insolvent or the subject of proceedings under any law relating to the relief of debtors or admits in writing its inability to pay its debts as they become due.



2)	If this Order is so terminated, Buyer may procure or otherwise obtain, upon such terms and in such manner as Buyer may deem appropriate, goods or services similar to those terminated.  Seller shall be liable to Buyer for any excess costs of such similar supplies or services.



3)	Seller shall transfer title and deliver to Buyer, in the manner and to the extent requested in writing by Buyer at or after termination, such complete or partially completed articles, property, materials, parts, tools, fixtures, plans, drawings, information and contract rights as Seller has produced or acquired for the performance  of the terminated part of this Order, and Buyer will pay Seller the contract price for completed articles delivered to and accepted by Buyer and the fair value of the other property of Seller so requested and delivered.



4)	Seller shall continue performance of this Order to the extent not terminated.  Buyer shall have no obligation to Seller with respect to the terminated part of this Order except as herein provided.



27.	SECURITY

Under its contract with NCI-Frederick, SAIC-Frederick, Inc. may be required to conduct, on persons performing work on Government Owned or controlled installations, individual background checks prior to the commencement of effort.  As part of this process, information will be required to enable SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to conduct the appropriate background checks, including name (including any aliases), daytime phone number, SSN, date of birth, and country of birth.  Individuals who are unable or unwilling to provide the required information and/or receive the required authorizations will not be allowed access to NCI-Frederick or any controlled premises.



Seller agrees to comply with the Information Technology (IT) systems security and /or privacy specifications set forth in the Agreement;  the Computer Security Act of 1987; Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-130, Appendix III, “Security of Federal Automated Information Systems”, and the DHHS Automated Information Systems Security Program (AISSP) Handbook, which may be found at the following websites:  Computer Security Act of 1987: , OMB A-130 Appendix III: , DHHS AISSP Handbook : .



The Seller further agrees to include this provision in any Order awarded pursuant to the Agreement.  Failure to comply with these requirements may constitute cause for termination under Paragraph 26 of these Terms and Conditions.



The Seller shall be responsible for properly protecting all information used, gathered, or developed as a result of the Agreement.  The Seller shall establish and implement appropriate administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of sensitive Government information, data and/or equipment.  Any Seller employee who may have access to sensitive information under this agreement shall complete the form entitled, “Commitment to Protect Non-Public Information – Contractor Agreement,” which may be found at the following website: .



A copy of each signed and witnessed Non-Disclosure agreement shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer prior to performing any work under the Agreement.



The Seller shall assure that each employee has completed the NIH Computer Security Awareness Training () prior to performing any work under this contract.



The Seller shall maintain and submit to the Contracting Officer a listing by name and title of each individual working under this contract, who has completed the NIH required training.  Any additional security training completed by Seller staff shall be included on this listing.



In addition, during all activities and operations on Government premises, the Seller shall comply with DHHS, including National Institutes of Health (NIH), rules of conduct.  Should the Seller have questions concerning these requirements or need of procedural guidance to ensure compliance they may contact the cognizant SAIC-Frederick, Inc. acquisition representative.



28.	TOBACCO USE AT THE NCI-FREDERICK

In accordance with the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) directive, the NCI-Frederick campus is a tobacco free workplace.  Use of tobacco in any form is prohibited on the entire NCI-Frederick campus.  This includes personal vehicles while on NCI-Frederick property and all government vehicles, regardless of their location.



This policy applies to all employees, Government and Contractor, visitors, Subcontractors, vendors and guests of the NCI-Frederick, and extends to all HHS owned or leased facilities and properties external to the NCI-Frederick campus where the sole tenant(s) are HHS and/or SAIC-Frederick employees.



29.	PAYMENT AND INVOICING

Payment – Work accepted by Buyer shall be paid for in U.S. dollars ($USD) within the negotiated terms upon receipt of proper invoice.



STANDARDS OF BUSINESS ETHICS

Seller, including all lower tiers are expected and required to comply fully with Buyer’s standards of business ethics and conduct and to inform appropriate Buyer officials immediately of any illegal or unethical conduct in their dealings with Buyer’s officers or employees.  Copies of the Buyer’s Code of Ethics and contacts for such reports are available on  at .



31.	SEVERABILITY

If any term contained in this Subcontract is held or finally determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, in whole or in part, such term shall be severed from this Subcontract, and the remaining terms contained herein shall continue in force and effect, and shall in no way be affected, prejudiced or disturbed thereby.



32.	INTERPRETATION

The captions and headings used in this Subcontract are solely for the convenience of the parties, and shall not be used in the interpretation of the text of this Subcontract.  Each party has read and agreed to the specific language of this Subcontract; therefore no conflict, ambiguity or doubtful interpretation shall be construed against the drafter.  



33.	ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY STANDARDS

Seller agrees to comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ( 29 U.S.C. 794d ) as amended by P.L. 105-220 under Title IV (Rehabilitation Act Amendments of 1998). Electronic and Information Technology (EIT) developed, procured, maintained, and/or used under this subcontract shall be in compliance with the "Electronic and Information Technology Accessibility Standards" set forth by the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board (also referred to as the "Access Board") in 36 CFR Part 1194.  The complete text of Section 508 Final Standards can be Accessed at .  Applicable standards to this requirement are set forth in 36 CFR Part 1194.21 through 26. 



Seller further agrees to include this provision in any “Order awarded pursuant to the” Agreement.  Failure to comply to “these requirements may constitute cause for termination under Paragraph 26”of these Terms and Conditions.



34.	ACCEPTANCE OF SUBCONTRACT AND MODIFICATION OF TERMS

Acceptance of this Subcontract by Subcontractor may be made by signing the acknowledgement copy hereof or by partial performance hereunder, and any such acceptance shall constitute an unqualified agreement to all terms and conditions set forth herein unless otherwise modified in writing by the parties.  Any additions, deletions or differences in the terms proposed by Subcontractor are objected to and hereby rejected, unless SAIC-F agrees otherwise in writing.  No additional or different terms and conditions proposed by the Subcontractor in accepting this Subcontract shall be binding upon SAIC-F unless accepted in writing by SAIC-F and no other addition, alteration or modification to, and no waiver of any of the provisions herein contained shall be valid unless made in writing and executed by SAIC-F and Subcontractor.  Subcontractor shall perform in accordance with the Description/Quantity schedule set forth in this Subcontract and all attachments thereto.



35.	ENTIRE AGREEMENT

The parties hereby agree that this Subcontract, including all documents incorporated herein by reference or attached hereto, shall constitute the entire agreement and understanding between the parties hereto and shall supersede and replace any and all prior or contemporaneous representations, agreements or understandings of any kind, whether written or oral, relating to the subject matter hereof.




ATTACHMENT 2





SAIC-FREDERICK INVOICE INSTRUCTIONS

AND

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NONEXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT


ATTACHMENT 2



INVOICE INSTRUCTIONS FOR TIME AND MATERIAL SUBCONTRACTS



Format:  Invoice Requests may be submitted on the payee's letterhead or self-designed form provided that it contains the information described herein.



Number of Copies:  One (1) e-mailed to  with Subcontract Specialist copied.



Frequency:  Invoice requests submitted in accordance with the Payment Clause shall be submitted no more frequently than monthly unless otherwise authorized by the Contracting Officer.



Cost Incurrence Period:  Costs incurred must be within the subcontract performance period or covered by pre-subcontract cost provisions.



Billing of Costs Incurred:  If billed costs include:  (l) costs of a prior billing period, but not previously billed; or (2) costs incurred during the subcontract period and claimed after the subcontract period has expired, the amount and month(s) in which such costs were incurred shall be cited.



Subcontractor's Fiscal Year:  Invoices shall be prepared in such a manner that costs claimed can be identified with the subcontractor's fiscal year.



Currency:  All SAIC/NCI subcontracts are expressed in United States (U.S.) dollars.  When payments are made in a currency other than U.S. dollars, billings on the subcontract shall be expressed, and payment shall be made, in that other currency at amounts coincident with actual costs incurred.  Currency fluctuations may not be a basis of gain or loss to the subcontractor.  Notwithstanding the above, the total of all invoices paid under this subcontract may not exceed the U.S. dollars authorized.



Costs Requiring Prior Approval:  Costs requiring the contracting officer's approval, which are not set forth in an Advance Understanding in the subcontract shall be so identified and reference the Contracting Officer's Authorization. In addition, any cost set forth in an Advance Understanding shall be shown as a separate line item on the request.



Invoice Submission:  Each invoice shall be identified as either:



(a)	Interim Invoice— These are interim payment requests submitted during the subcontract performance period.



(b)	Final Invoice — A final invoice may be required after the amounts owed have been settled between SAIC and the Subcontractor (e.g., resolution of all suspensions and audit exceptions).


 INVOICE PREPARATION AND DOCUMENTATION REQUIREMENTS FOR TIME AND MATERIAL SUBCONTRACTS



The Subcontractor shall furnish the information set forth in the explanatory notes below.  These notes are keyed to the entries on the sample invoice.  



(a)	Designated Billing Office Name and Address — Enter the designated billing office name and address, identified in the Invoice Submission Clause of the subcontract, on all copies of the invoice.



(b)	Invoice Number — Insert the appropriate serial number of the invoice.



(c)	Date Invoice Prepared — Insert the date the invoice is prepared.



(d)	Subcontract Number and Date — Insert the subcontract number and the effective date of the subcontract.



(e)	Payee's Name and Address — Show the Subcontractor's name (as it appears in the subcontract), correct address, and the title and phone number of the responsible official to whom payment is to be sent.  When an approved assignment has been made by the Subcontractor, or a different payee has been designated, then insert the name and address of the payee instead of the subcontractor.



(f) 	Total Estimated Cost of Subcontract — Insert the total estimated cost of the subcontract.



(g) 	Billing Period — Insert the beginning and ending dates (month, day, and year) of the period in which costs were incurred and for which reimbursement is claimed.



(h)	Amount Billed for Current Period — Insert the amount billed for the major cost elements, adjustments, and adjusted amounts for the current period.



(i)	Cumulative Amount from Inception — Insert the cumulative amounts billed for the major cost elements and adjusted amounts claimed during this subcontract.



(j)	Direct Costs — Insert the major cost elements.  For each element, consider the application of the paragraph entitled "Costs Requiring Prior Approval" on page 1 of these instructions.



Direct Labor — Provide each labor category, hours worked (or percentage of effort), hourly rate charged (or annual salary), and amount billed.

 

Accountable Personal Property — Include permanent research equipment and general purpose equipment having a unit acquisition cost of $5,000 or more and having an expected service life of more than two years, and sensitive property regardless of cost (see the DHHS Contractor's Guide for Control of Government Property (http://amb.nci.nih.gov/reference/amblinks.htm).  Show permanent research equipment separate from general purpose equipment.  Prepare and attach form entitled: Report of Capitalized Nonexpendable Equipment included in this subcontract.



List each item for which reimbursement is requested.  A reference shall be made to the following (as applicable):

			

			-	The item number for the specific piece of equipment listed in the Property Schedule.

			-	The Contracting Officer’s approval letter and number, if the equipment is not covered by the Property Schedule.

			-	Be preceded by an asterisk (*) if the equipment is below the approval level.  Further itemization of invoices shall only be required for items having specific limitations set forth in the subcontract.



(3)	Materials and Supplies — Include equipment with unit costs of less than $5,000 or an expected service life of two years or less, and consumable material and supplies regardless of amount. Attach invoices from vendors or a General Ledger providing individually listed equipment/supplies and the amount paid.



(4)	Premium Pay — List remuneration in excess of the basic hourly rate and attach the Contracting Officers approval letter.



(5)	Consultant Fee — List fees paid to consultants.  Identify consultant by name or category as set forth in the subcontract's Advance Understanding or in the Contracting Officer’s approval letter, hours worked, rate charged and amount.   (Attach consultant’s invoice)



(6)	Travel —Identify travelers, dates, destination, purpose of trip, and amount.  Include domestic and foreign travel.  Foreign travel is travel outside of Canada, the United States and its territories and possessions.  However, for an organization located outside Canada, the United States and its territories and possessions, foreign travel means travel outside that country.  Foreign travel must be billed separately from domestic travel. ( Attach travel expense report )



(7)	Subcontract Costs — List subcontractor(s) by name and amount billed. Describe services provided.  (Attach subcontractor invoices)



(8)	Other — List all other direct costs in total unless exceeding $1,000 in amount.  If over $1,000, list cost elements and dollar amounts separately.  If the subcontract contains restrictions on any cost element, that cost element must be listed separately.



(k)	Total Amounts Claimed — Insert the total amounts claimed for the current and cumulative periods.



(l)	Adjustments — Include amounts conceded by the Subcontractor, outstanding suspensions, and/or disapprovals subject to appeal.  (Provide explanation and rationale for adjustment)



(m)	Grand Totals



ATTACHMENT 2

INSTRUCTIONS FOR PREPARATION OF REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NONEXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



This 










Attachment 2















ATTACHMENT 3





SUBCONTRACTING CERTIFICATION


SUBCONTRACTING CERTIFICATION



In accordance with the terms of its prime contract under which a resulting award will be issued, SAIC-Fredrick is committed to maximizing small business subcontracting opportunities to the maximum extent practicable.  In pursuit of this objective please complete, and include in your technical proposal, the following certification providing the percentage of effort that will be conducted by in-house, employee personnel during the execution of the statement of work as provided herein (including any option tasks/periods, as applicable):









*If the percentage of work to be conducted by employees of your organization is less than 100% a small business subcontracting plan as described in FAR 19.704 should be provided with your proposal and must be accepted by SAIC-Frederick prior to subcontract award.  Failure to provide an acceptable subcontracting plan in a timely manner may render your organization ineligible for subcontract award. 




ATTACHMENT 4





COST PROPOSAL WORKSHEET


COST ESTIMATE WORKSHEET

CTR Design & Development



	PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE




ATTACHMENT 5





ARRA REPRESENTATIONS & CERTIFICATIONS


Representations and Certifications

AMERICAN RECOVERY AND REINVESTMENT ACT OF 2009



NOTICE:  By signing below, the Subcontractor represents and certifies that this certification is accurate, current, and complete and that the signer is duly authorized to make such certification on behalf of the Subcontractor. 





CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION.



	It  is,  is not registered in the Central Contractor Registration database.





DUNS NUMBER. (Show as it appears in CCR.) 



	Its DUNS number is_ 



	Its DUNS Plus 4 number is __ __ __ __   or    a DUNS Plus 4 number is not applicable.





PARENT DUNS NUMBER. 



	It  does,  does not have a parent company. 



	If it has a parent company, the parent company's DUNS number is __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __ __.





4.	NAICS Code of work performed



	__________________________________________________





5.	LEGAL BUSINESS NAME.  (Show as it appears in CCR.)



	Its legal business name by which it is incorporated and pays taxes is   	

	

	

	__________________________________________________________________________________





6.	DOING BUSINESS AS (DBA).  (Show as it appears in CCR.)



	It  commonly uses another name,  does not commonly use another name.



	If it commonly uses another name, the name is 



	_________________________________________________________________





SUBCONTRACTOR'S PHYSICAL ADDRESS.  (P. O. Box or c/o may not be used. Show as it appears in CCR.)

	

	Street Address:  

 

	City:  



	State:  



	Zip Code (nine digits required):  



	Congressional district (required if in the United States):  _______________



PRIMARY PERFORMANCE LOCATION OF THE SUBCONTRACT WORK.  

	(P. O. Box or c/o may not be used.)



	Street Address:



 

	City: 



	State:  



	Zip Code (nine digits required):  



	Congressional district (required if in the United States):  _______________



9.	EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.  ("Total Compensation" means the complete pay package of subcontractor employees, including all forms of monthly, benefits, services, and in-kind payments, consistent with the regulations of the Securities and Exchange 	Commission at 17 CFR 229.402.)



	A.	Names and total compensation of each of the five most highly compensated officers for the calendar year in which the subcontract is awarded if—

			(1)	in its preceding fiscal year, it received—

(a)	80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and sub-grants), and cooperative agreements; and

(b)	$25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and sub-grants), and cooperative agreements; and 

		(2)	the public does not has access to information about the compensation of the senior executives through periodic  reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (15 U.S.C. 78M(a), 78o(d)) or  section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

				

			The compensation for senior executives shown above is for calendar year 20__.



			Its fiscal year end date is ___________.

	 	  

	B.	If compensation of senior executives is not provided in 8.A above, complete the following:



			In its preceding fiscal year, it did,  did not receive—

			(1)	80 percent or more of its annual gross revenues in Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and sub-grants), and cooperative agreements; and

			(2)	$25,000,000 or more in annual gross revenues from Federal contracts (and subcontracts), loans, grants (and sub-grants), and cooperative agreements.



			The public  does,  does not have access to information about the compensation of the senior executives through periodic reports filed under section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 {15 U.S.C. 78M(a), 78o(d)} or section 6104 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

		

LEGAL BUSINESS NAME:  __________________________________________________________





By:  ____________ ____________________________________________

				Printed/Typed Name



     ________________________________________________________

				Signature



Title: _____________ _________________________________________



Date: ______________________________________________________






ATTACHMENT 6





SECTION C—RFP STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES 
SECTION C—DESCRIPTION/SPECIFICATIONS/STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES



ARTICLE C.1.  STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES



1  Background

1.1   General

The National Cancer Institute Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology (NCI CBIIT) is collaborating with the Food and Drug Administration (the FDA) to create the Clinical Trials Repository (CTR) that will support the automatic validation, loading and management of standard clinical trials data to support regulatory review and comparative effectiveness research (CER). The goal of the project to be executed under this Subcontract is to design, develop and implement the database structure and associated infrastructure for the production version of CTR.



The knowledge, perspectives, and experience already gained by NCI CBIIT during the definition, design, development, deployment, support and evolution of the Cancer Biomedical Grid® (caBIG®) will inform the operational implementation of CTR and help pave the way for designing effective validation and automatic load services, as well as common security policies and procedures.



CTR will be developed and deployed as a reference implementation at NCI.  In the next phase of this project, CTR may be transferred to the  FDA for operational implementation..  The contractors development activities will be focused on utilizing a variety of standards that support caBIG®  for the purpose of  working interoperability. A number of Best Practices drawn from the collective experiences of both the commercial and open-source software engineering communities will be employed.  The software components developed at CBIIT will be based on a commitment to open-source, open-access development with the goal of promoting the maximum amount of sharing and integration.  These components will also be specified in such a manner to enable bindings to non-CBIIT technology platforms in other commercial or open-source implementations.  



The new CTR will be compliant with appropriate standards, including the Biomedical Research Integrated Domain Group (BRIDG) Domain Model.  

1.2 Project Background— Development of CTR for CER



The FDA houses the largest known repository of clinical study data, including unique high quality data on the safety, effectiveness and performance of drugs, biologics and devices, both pre- and post-approval. These data are not collected or stored in standardized format and for this reason, cannot be evaluated across multiple studies, products or populations except with great difficulty. The goal of this project is to collaboratively build and use the standards, infrastructure, scientific resources, tools and policies needed to receive process and analyze this clinical study data. The infrastructure and approaches developed because of this project will enable studies of comparative effectiveness and other complex research and evaluation using the agency’s vast, but untapped, stores of patient safety and clinical efficacy data. 



The availability of a data repository for storing, organizing, and extracting scientific data about regulated products  in a common “language” or format  to support regulatory decision making underpins the success of any broader initiatives to comparatively evaluate product performance. Such a data repository will be developed during this project. 



At its full capacity, CTR will be a comprehensive clinical trial and population health data repository that facilitates access to and analysis of 21st century data sources (e.g., large quantity digital data that come from new imaging and “omics” technologies), and collation of that data with other sources of information on medical product effectiveness, safety, and quality.  CTR will be interoperable with clinical data sources such as electronic health records and other data sources and will include protocols for secure and reliable data storage and access, as well as analytic tools for data analysis.   

1.3   Terminology, Links, and References

Terminology and acronyms used throughout are given in Appendix A.  Links are given in Appendix B.

2     Scope of Work

The scope of this project is to design and develop CTR and associated services to support the automated processing of datasets compliant with the Clinical Data Interchange Standards Consortium (CDISC) Study Data Tabulation Model (SDTM) from the time they are made available for loading from the FDA’s electronic document room (EDR) through their validation and loading into the CTR database.  Development of the CTR will include a database design to be developed by the Subcontractor, with such database providing significant analytical and visualization functions. Data marts and SDTM materialized views (SDTM v3.1.2 or later) will be created to facilitate the use of the data for analysis by the FDA reviewers. CTR will be populated with legacy data to operationalize the system for CER.  



The Subcontractor will identify all requirements for the database and model designs, with consideration for the architecture and infrastructure needed to support a full operational system. The operational system will be developed by working through multiple iterations to design, develop, and test the system, insuring the reference system can be validated when transferred to the FDA.  

3    Objectives



This project will address tasks needed to provide an operational environment that supports the review and analysis of clinical trials data for CER.  This operational environment will include the extraction, validation, loading and management of clinical trial data in CDISC SDTM format into CTR. 



Key objectives are to:



Design, test, and implement CTR’s database so that it supports data integrity, relationships, and analytical functions.  This work will include development of the specifications and services required to validate SDTM datasets, populate the CTR database, and create SDTM materialized views and data marts.

Develop a “standalone” SDTM Validation Service that can be made publicly available to clinical trial sponsors to enable validation of their data sets using the same criteria to be applied by the CTR.  To accomplish this objective the Subcontractor will develop this service to the level where it is in production, has been tested to work with early adopters, and can be easily deployed with appropriate documentation and minimal support.  This service is intended to be used by sponsors to preview or check draft data sets before actual submission to the FDA. Once data sets pass the SDTM Validation Service, sponsors will be able to submit them to the FDA for processing in the CTR via the FDA gateway.

Implement a version of the SDTM Validation service at CBIIT for use once data has been submitted to the FDA.

Develop a Load Service to automatically load data sets that are submitted to the CTR.  Ideally, a sponsor’s regulatory data submissions will be pre-validated using the “publicly available” SDTM Validation Service before their submission to the FDA.  During the CTR load process, these pre-validated SDTM submissions subsequently will be the validated again via the “in house” instance of the STDM Validation service, prior to loading into the repository database. An exception handling process for select datasets will be a component of this service.

Perform technical and operational support for the incremental loading and testing of converted legacy datasets or new SDTM datasets concurrently with CTR database design activities.  This support shall include technical assistance with troubleshooting, handling and resolving SDTM validation or database load problems and programming support to resolve technical problems in the day-to-day operation of the pilot environment, including data load problems that are not related to data errors.  Design, develop, document and implement processes and procedures to support the operational functions of the CTR including workflows and optimized queries to address the need for high volume interactions with the CTR database.



Analyze requirements, develop and implement operational features, including functional and technical features, for the CTR database.



Develop requirements, test cases and test plans with the FDA project managers and adopters.  Obtain and use specific clinical trial data from across three Centers, the Center for Drug Evaluation and Research (CDER), Center for Biologics Evaluation and Research (CBER), and some Center for Devices and Radiological Health (CDRH) for testing the system.  Develop access management and security functions to allow role-based access to study data (e.g., only the FDA reviewers can look at study data associated with a product application, any user can look at de-identified study data, etc.)



Integrate with appropriate NCI Enterprise Services to facilitate completion of all CTR requirements and functionality.



Service design work will utilize the caBIG® Enterprise Compliance and Conformance Framework (ECCF) documentation  and follow the NCI’s Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology (CBIIT) Services-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) Implementation Guide (IG) ()



Using these objectives and project descriptions, the Subcontractor should describe how they would implement these objectives to develop CTR and support the CER initiative.

4   Project Description and Requirements



Base Period Project Requirements:



Provide day-to-day operational support for the processing of SDTM study submissions as well as for the incremental load and testing of legacy-converted datasets during the implementation effort.



Analyze technical requirements and develop a CTR database design to create a common, shared repository capable of meeting the FDA’s requirements for comparative effectiveness analysis of clinical study data in several therapeutic areas (e.g., HIV, diabetes, vaccines, others).



Fully automate the process of validating and loading SDTM datasets into the CTR – from the uploading of these datasets to their successful validation and loading into the CTR database.  



Develop all ECCF documentation for the Automatic Load Service that handles SDTM v 3.1.2 or later.  Ensure that it is extensible for future versions of SDTM.  



Review and improve previously developed ECCF documentation for the Validation Service that handles SDTM v 3.1.2 or later.  Ensure that it is extensible for future versions of SDTM. 

 

Develop, deliver and deploy source code for an integrated SDTM Validation Service and an Automatic Load Service to support the validation and loading of study data into the CTR. The STDM Validation Service may take the form of being a publicly available service to clinical trial sponsors, thereby enabling sponsors to validate their data sets using the same criteria to be applied by the FDA to CTR. The design of this STDM Validation Service is being performed by the Open CDISC community (http://www.opencdisc.org/projects/validator/cdisc-validation-rules-repository) as an open source development project and design documentation of the “Open CDISC Validator” which will be used as the Validation service for both the “standalone” service and the “in-house” instance of the Validation service.  This design will include the FDA’s current requirements for SDTM validation rules. 



Implement an operational environment that supports the automatic validation, loading and management of standard clinical trials data in the CTR and provides reviewer access to that data for comparative effectiveness research using the JReview® and WebSDM™ reviewer tools.



Validate SDTM datasets, load validated SDTM datasets into CTR database, create SDTM materialized views, and integrate the system with analytical tools (as needed) to support CER.



Load sample sets of legacy data from the FDA centers including CDER, CBER, and CDRH and provide detailed testing errors reports.  Analysis of this effort will help determine how much the FDA legacy data will be loaded as part of this project.



Develop, document, and implement features to support access management and security functions to allow role-based access to study data in the CTR (e.g., only the FDA reviewers can look at study data associated with a product application).  



Ensure that the software development project plan, software code, and system designs and documentation deliverables for this project are designed to comply with 21CFR part 11 and can be validated following current the FDA validation practices and guidelines. 



Complete all work necessary for defining a Systems Security Plan as well as perform a Security Risk Assessment.



Assumptions:



Work on this project must be planned and scheduled efficiently to meet an aggressive implementation schedule, e.g., work on the CTR and work on the SDTM validation service shall continue along parallel paths because they are not interdependent activities.



There will be a dedicated team of FDA stakeholders assigned to provide functional requirements for all new or modified functionality, including changes to current validation rules, to permit loading of SDTM datasets that have been converted from legacy data for comparative effectiveness research, review artifacts delivered as a result of this contract, and perform user acceptance testing at various stages of the CTR design, development and implementation effort.



The FDA and NCI will establish a service level agreement at the outset of the Subcontract that addresses timely support for handling operational or infrastructure problems during the course of the contract.



Services developed under this contract shall meet the caBIG® ECCF requirements.  ECCF document templates can be found at . Service specifications can be found at and specification projects at .



All work will be reconciled to meet the expectations of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Enterprise Performance Life Cycle Framework; more information can be found at:   .



Functional QA of the system will be performed by a separate subcontractor under a separate contract. It is expected that the awardee(s) of this contract will respond to the QA team to ensure that all  errors and bugs identified are eliminated or mitigation strategies (plans) designed and approved by SAIC-F in concert with the government are employed.

5 Project Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) and Project Plan



The Offeror shall develop a preliminary Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) and Project Plan that meets the objectives and requirements outlined above and will provide the deliverables described below. The WBS should be based on an iterative, incremental software engineering process using a multi-disciplinary team and should provide first-order estimates of time and effort to achieve both Unified Process-compliant Phase Milestones as well as critical-success Milestones across the project’s software development lifecycle.



See Section L of this solicitation and deliverable descriptions below for further guidance.



Upon award, the Subcontractor shall be responsible for ensuring the accuracy, timeliness and completeness of all tasks performed under this effort. Deliverable review procedures, acceptance criteria and submission guidelines are delineated in Section 7 below.  Technical guidance for this project will be provided by the SAIC-F COTR and/or the NCI Project Officer.  The status of all tasks and deliverables will be tracked by the SAIC-F COTR, and reported on by the Subcontractor in Monthly Status Reports.



TASK 1 - Project Management

TASK 1.1 - Project Management Plan



The Subcontractor shall develop a Project Management Plan (PMP) describing the means to accomplish project objectives.  The PMP shall:



Include a work breakdown structure (WBS) encompassing planning, tracking, execution, and completion activities for all tasks.  Proposed deliverable due dates may be requested per the deliverable schedule in the Deliverables/Deliverables Schedule section below.

Describe the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls employed to meet the cost, performance, and schedule requirements for this effort.

Detail the products, methods for producing deliverables, allocation of staff and other resources necessary to produce deliverables, and timelines.

Outline the risk management plan for the project. 



PMPs shall include an MS Project formatted document including the WBS, and MS Word documents describing any other plans (e.g., Management Approach, Risk Plan).  An initial draft of the PMP shall be submitted with the proposal.  This draft PMP with WBS shall encompass any milestone reviews described in Section 7 below, as well as any requested Subcontractor supplied dates for Deliverables.  Based on review of the PMP, the SAIC-F COTR will provide approval to move forward on planned activities. The Subcontractor shall request prior approval for all activities not included in the PMP or any modifications to the plan after approval has been given. The final PMP, including any approved changes, shall be submitted as a deliverable at the end of the project.

TASK 1.2 - Update Project Charter

The Subcontractor shall develop a Project Charter document that contains a summary of the products to be developed, including selected data and analytical services for grid enablement, and for each product or service, at minimum, the following shall be described;

Brief functional or scientific description of each product or service to be developed

Brief description of the planned technical architecture of each product or service (e.g., whether a service is web-based, input formats, output formats, and data constraints)

For data services, a description of the data sets and elements that will be made available

Preliminary deployment plan for each product or service.

TASK 1.3 - Monthly Status



The Subcontractor shall document technical and financial status in detailed Monthly Status Reports. All monthly technical and financial reports will be delivered in the template format provided by the SAIC-F COTR.  Monthly Status Reports shall be submitted directly to both the SAIC-F COTR and SAIC-F contract specialist.  The monthly report will include information such as the following:  Program status overview, including status of deliverables/milestones; Description of activities completed during the month; Description of activities planned for the next month; Description of resolution(s) to previously-identified issues/obstacles; Delineation of risk factors that may delay completion of planned items and recommended solution(s); Budgeted total and budgeted monthly hours; Actual hours expended for the reporting period by unit, including breakdown by labor category and name; Actual hours expended to date by task, including breakdown by labor category and name, task totals and task order total; Actual costs to date and for the reporting period (based on actual hours); Estimated Cost to Completion; Estimated Cost at Completion; Task/Cost variance (for >10% variance include explanation/analysis); and Other direct cost (ODC) progress/costs.



In addition, the Subcontractor shall participate in periodic status teleconferences with the SAIC-F COTR at the direction and period as specified by the SAIC-F COTR.  Periodic teleconferences will be held at no greater than weekly frequency, but focused status teleconferences to address specific issues may also be requested.

TASK 1.4 - Project Summary Report



The Subcontractor shall submit a Project Summary Report at the conclusion of the project. This report shall describe the work accomplished, issues encountered and resolutions to them, recommendations for future enhancements, potential implementation strategies, and lessons learned. The final version of the project summary report, including any approved changes made during review, shall be delivered to the SAIC-F COTR in electronic form (Microsoft Word™ format) at the completion of the project.

TASK 2 - System Requirements, Architecture, and Design

TASK 2.1 - Technical Analysis and Design of the CTR Database to Support Comparative Effectiveness Research (CER)

Analysis and design activities are required to develop and implement a database design that supports reviewer access, analysis, retrieval, and manipulation capabilities as well as rigorous enforcement of clinical data standards.



A critical task during this project will be to enable the creation of a new common, shared database capable of fully implementing use of SDTM and other health-related data standards to perform CER to meet the ARRA-funded project goals at the FDA. 



During this sub-task, the Subcontractor will provide technical leadership and modeling expertise to work with the FDA reviewers and subject matter specialists to complete the analysis and development of a database design for the CTR to support the FDA’s comparative effectiveness research and regulatory review activities.  The Subcontractor should proposed an approach that will result in a database design capable of storing data that can be exchanged using appropriate HL7 version 3 standards and CDISC SDTM, as well as any additional data that is needed for CER.  The design must also be capable of supporting the creation of SDTM views and needed for CER analysis.  The design should be compliant with and informed by BRIDG.



Successful completion of this modeling activity will require working closely with the FDA and NCI staff and their contractors and subcontractors.



Phases and activities involved in designing, implementing, and testing the CTR and supporting services include, but are not limited to, the following activities:



Develop, test and implement the design specifications for a database to implement the CTR, including mappings required to support materialized views for SDTM 3.1.2 as well as necessary changes to the hosting platform of the physical database; determine the impact on services used to load data into the database and create SDTM materialized views; and a plan to implement the common repository.



Prototype and test the new database to ensure that SDTM datasets can be successfully loaded into the database and that required materialized views can be produced from the database.



Develop, test and implement  Validation service that will be publicly available that can be used by sponsors to pre-validate submissions before they are sent to the  FDA



Implement the SDTM Validation service at CBIIT for use by the FDA to validate the SDTM messages before they are loaded into the CTR staging area.



Develop, test and implement the load service that can be used by the  FDA to deliver and subsequently load validated SDTM data sets into the CTR staging area.

task 2.2 - System Use Cases 

The Subcontractor shall enhance and expand on existing use cases as needed and develop a final set of use cases specific to the intended use and operation of the systems, subsystems, and/or features to be developed.  The set of use cases should clearly show how the system is intended to be used in its functional context (e.g., for purposes of comparative effectiveness research and analysis).  The System Use Cases should make specific reference to any caBIG, Enterprise or Workspace Use Cases described in the Project Description and Requirements section of this document. 

TASK 2.3 - System and Software Design 



The Subcontractor shall develop a project System and Software Design document that contains a summary of the products to be developed.  For each product or service, at minimum, the following shall be described:



Brief functional or scientific description of each product or service to be developed

Brief description of the planned technical architecture of each product or service (e.g., whether a service is web-based, input formats, output formats, and data constraints)

A description of the planned design of both the SDTM Validation Service and the SDTM Load Service, relative to the CTR database, staging database(s), and any other NCI Enterprise Services along with the FDA’s electronic document room and review tools.

For data services, a description of the data sets and elements that will be made available, this should be done in the ECCF documentation (CIM, PIM and PSM)

Preliminary deployment plan for each product or service



TASK 2.3.1 – Integrate system with NES services specified in system design



At minimum two services will be developed to complete the process of validating and loading SDTM datasets into the CTR, however as the design is finalized in the detailed design phase, it is expected that additional services will be needed (see Gforge Candidate NCI Enterprise Services @ https://wiki.nci.nih.gov/display/EAWiki/Candidate+NCI+Enterprise+Services) to be developed or consumed/integrated into the CTR system, if available through NCI’s NES,  and would cover such areas as event notifications, auditing, authorization management, authentication, validation of structural and semantic consistency, and enterprise vocabulary services to support mapping of terminologies, and value sets.  These services will need to be well integrated with the Clinical Trials Implementation Model, which is discussed in TASKS 5, and 6.

TASK 2.3.2 – Design and Prepare ECCF documentation for the SDTM Automatic Load Service

 Design and prepare ECCF documentation for the Load Service that captures the following requirements: Automatically load datasets that “pass” the SDTM validation checks into the CTR database, generating error reports that describe errors that occur during the load process, and send these error reports to the FDA-designated recipients (e.g. the FDA staff, sponsors, etc.) 

TASK 2.3.3 – Design and Prepare ECCF documentation for Validation Service 

Design and develop ECCF documentation for validation service that supports the validation of SDTM datasets and production of error reports describing all errors encountered during the sequential validation process (e.g., SDTM validation checks).  Error reports also will be generated to describe any errors that cause the datasets to fail the database load.  (Note: the FDA will: provide requirements for the distribution of these error reports to the FDA staff (whom will be responsible for following up with sponsors), and define internal procedures for following up with sponsors as well as internal procedures for following up with sponsors to correct the errors and resubmit the study data).



ECCF Documentation should be enhanced as necessary to encompass any additional requirements.  This service will also be used by the FDA prior to loading SDTM messages into CTR.

TASK 2.4 - Develop, document and implement enhancements to CTR access and security functions

The Subcontractor shall develop, document, and implement access and security functions to allow role-based access to study data (e.g., only FDA reviewers can look at study data associated with a product application, any user can look at de-identified study data, etc.).  This functionality shall include:



Authentication

Authorization

Auditing

User Access Management and Administration

Ability to administer  roles and access by person and organization

Ability to secure all trials, with  default access status being no access other than  FDA approved   

Ability to open or secure trial data by arms or cohorts, as trial data is completed.

TASK 2.5 - Implementation Plan 



The Subcontractor shall create and update a detailed implementation plan for all planned products and services to be developed.  The implementation plan shall describe the technical environment within which the product (e.g. HW, OS, Middleware) is to be developed, the external dependencies, the procedures to be used for the development (e.g. lifecycle model, Code management (CM) and a detailed schedule for the development).

TASK 3 - System development and Implementation

Develop Application Program Interface services (APIs).  One service will be the SDTM validation service.  The second API will be for the CTR Load service. The third API is for an automatic report generation service or similar functionality. Additional services may be utilized or developed that may require APIs and will be described in the design documentation.



Development of all services should utilize the BDA process described below and they will need to be integrated with the CTR.

TASK 3.2 - Implement the CTR Database Design



The Subcontractor shall develop all of the necessary components and models to implement the CTR database design along with all the services required by this Subcontract.  This will include the services required to validate SDTM datasets, load datasets into clinical trials database, create SDTM materialized views, and integrate with analytical tools (as needed) to support comparative effectiveness research.



The Subcontractor shall conduct activities that verify all components and integration of components.  All software and systems will be tested completely to ensure technical, scientific and business requirements of the FDA are met.  

TASK 3.3 - Build Automatic Report Generation Service



Build a service to automatically report on the status of datasets as they are processed through the sequential validation and load processes (e.g., uploaded to staging area, failed because of SDTM errors or because of database error) and sending them to recipients identified by the FDA as part of the end-to-end processing.

TASK 4 - Operational Support for SDTM Study Submissions

The Subcontractor shall provide day-to-day operational support for the processing of new SDTM study submissions and legacy converted datasets, including data validation and database or programming support as needed to resolve technical problems in the day-to-day operation of the pilot operational environment or data load problems that are not related to data errors. 



The Subcontractor shall draft a service level agreement (SLA) and provide a draft with the proposal and a final version 30 days following award (see deliverables table),  defining roles and responsibilities and procedures to be followed to ensure timely support for handling operational or infrastructure problems during the course of the contract.  The SLA must be reviewed and approved by SAIC-F and the NCI PO.



Based on the SLA, the Subcontractor shall also maintain the system in operation and provide status, error and resolution reports.  These status reports shall include information about the numbers of studies loaded and validated, a description of any system problems encountered, and an error report that covers SDTM and errors encountered during the load process. The resolution report shall describe and analyze problems in the pilot operational environment that cause load failures and summarize actions and recommendations documented as taken or needed to resolve the problem.

TASK 4.1 -   Provide documentation for the FDA Validation Purposes



The Subcontractor shall develop the software code and processes so that the system is able to be validated according to current FDA rules and guidelines and system specific requirements.  The Subcontractor shall work with the FDA to determine what documentation is necessary and refer to items listed in Appendix B.

TASK 4.2 - Processes and procedures development for operational functions



The Subcontractor shall develop, document and implement processes and procedures to support the following operational functions as a part of System Maintenance Support:



Operational Support

Complete or batch submission of trial data

Partial and incremental submission of trial data

Editing of trial data with audit trail 

Problem reporting and management, including problems reporting by either users or developers, problem analysis and escalation procedures, tracking, and resolution

Software configuration management and change control

TASK 4.2.1 - Develop a System Security Plan (SSP)



The Subcontractor shall develop a SSP that describes managerial, technical and operational security controls (as defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology) that are designed and implemented within the system.

TASK 4.2.2 - Develop a Security Risk Assessment (SRA)



The Subcontractor shall prepare a Security Risk Assessment that documents the analysis of the security functional requirements and identifies the protection requirements for the system using a formal risk assessment process.  The risk assessment must identify threats to and vulnerabilities in the information system.  The risk assessment must also describe the potential impact or magnitude of harm that a loss of confidentiality, integrity or availability would have on agency assets or operations as well as the identification and analysis of security controls for the information system.

TASK 5 - System Test

TASK 5.1 - Develop System and Software Test Plan 



The Subcontractor shall develop system and software test plans for testing CTR end-to-end processing. The Subcontractor shall work with the development and management teams to produce and document appropriate quality assurance (QA) and testing plans for new releases of software. Participate with development team: For every product that is assigned to this subcontract, the Subcontractor shall assign an individual that shall be the QA liaison to the project. This individual will attend the relevant team meetings of the software development group to provide QA support and advice.

TASK 5.2 - Conduct System and Software Tests

The Subcontractor shall perform tests according to the Test Plan for each iteration of development. 



The Subcontractor shall carry out limited unit test cases on the development tier prior to the system and integration testing. Any defects which will be reported to the development teams at any stage of the process, from development through production, the Subcontractor will attempt to fix as soon as possible. Prior to initiation of any system testing all defects will need resolution.  All defect reporting shall utilize the NCI CBIIT defect tracking and reporting system (currently GForge). System, Integration and Regression testing shall not begin unless all defects identified have been resolved (either by correcting the defect or determination that the defect will not be corrected during this release.  System testing will also have any defects reported to the development teams prior to initiation of any staging testing.



Test Results—Test results documentation shall be in a user-defined format.  Acceptable Test Results Documentation must include a description of the actual tests run and the results for all test cases described in the System and Software Test Plan.  The documentation of the test procedures must be provided in sufficient detail so that the SAIC-F COTR will be able to determine whether the test provided adequate coverage of the feature or function being tested.  Delivery of actual test scripts is acceptable as long as a text-based summary of each is also provided.  Conditions under which each test was run shall be described together with a description of whether the test was passed or not according to the criteria stated in the Test Plan.  



The Test Results Deliverable will not be accepted until evidence has been given that all tests in the test plan have successfully been executed and all tests have passed, unless exceptions are specifically allowed by the SAIC-F COTR.  The SAIC-F COTR may request a visual demonstration of tests specified in the Test Plan as part of final acceptance. 



Acceptable test results shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D. 

Test status dashboard shall follow 508 compliance (36CFR, subpart B, § 1194.22, 

TASK 6 - Compliance with caBIG® compatibility

TASK 6.1 - Generate Common Data Elements



The Subcontractor shall generate Common Data Elements (CDEs) for each of the approved UML models including the SDTM data model. All data structures that will be seen on the grid shall have XML Metadata Interchange (XMI) representations, while purely internal classes and data structures will not undergo XMI or CDE creation. Approved UML models shall be used as the substrate for CDE creation. The Subcontractor shall use the Semantic Integration Workbench to annotate the UML Model and then follow the caBIG® approved process to register the model in caDSR.

TASK 6.2 - Generate semantically annotated XMIs



The Subcontractor must provide concept codes from publicly available vocabularies for descriptions of objects and attributes in the model. The use of the SIW (Semantic Integration Workbench is encouraged, but not required.  The Subcontractor shall iteratively revise annotations based on review by designated CBIIT staff and caBIG® VCDE Workspace members.

TASK 6.3 - Generate CDEs in caDSR



The Subcontractor shall submit the semantically annotated XMI files to NCI CBIIT for loading into caDSR and creating CDEs. The CDEs, created by loading the UML models into the caDSR, shall then be placed on the staging server of the caDSR. The CDEs on the staging server will be reviewed by the caDSR team and shall be iteratively refined by the Subcontractor. Once the UML models are loaded and the refined CDEs are on the caDSR staging server, the development team shall submit an interoperability review package to the VCDE Workspace and request the CDEs to be moved to the production server of the caDSR.

6 System Deployment

6.1   Requirements for Data Sharing and Functional Integration



In the semantic services-oriented architecture that supports the CBIIT Knowledge Cloud, services will be deployed with associated Functional, Semantic, and Conformance profiles to enable maximal and tractably scalable Working Interoperability between components.  Details for specifying Profiles within the context of the ECCF are given in links in the appendix.  In the context of the ECCF and associated sSOA profiles, both data sharing and functional integration are comprehensively and explicitly defined.  A graphic view of profiles is shown below:







6.2   Software Development Requirements and Constraints



The following constraints should be reflected in the Subcontractor’s Software Development Plan;



The people who develop, maintain or use CTR will have the education, training and experience to perform their assigned tasks.

The appropriate design documents and change control procedures as determined by NCI QA or designee will be used.

The systems will be adequately validated during the software development lifecycle (SDLC) through the use of a complete requirements traceability matrix (RTM). The traceability matrix must be included as part of the testing approach deliverable.

The system will provide the functionality to generate and manage accurate data records during the development processes.

The security of data records will be adequately protected to retain confidentiality, integrity and availability.

The system will limit access to authorized individuals.

Establishment of and adherence to written policies that hold individuals accountable for actions initiated under their electronic signatures.

Establishment of appropriate controls over systems documentation.

Establishment of controls for open systems and controls for closed systems. 

Establishment of requirements related to electronic signatures.

The use of any necessary change management, configuration management, risk management, QA, and Release Management.

 The system will comply with the caBIG® Common Security Model.  .

The system will be auditable. Specifically, the system must: (i) create, protect, and retain information system audit records to the extent needed to enable the monitoring, analysis, investigation, and reporting of unlawful, unauthorized, or inappropriate information system activity; and (ii) ensure that the actions of individual information system users can be uniquely traced to those users so they can be held accountable for their actions. 

6.3 Enterprise Conformance and Compliance Framework



As stated above, all software developed under CBIIT funding will utilize the ECCF to collect the artifacts necessary to full specify the software components being developed.  Specification documentation will include necessary Boolean Conformance Statements as required to fulfill all known Functional and Quality requirements within the scope of the current project.  The implementation developed against the specification will then make pair-wise Conformance Assertions so that the implementation may be tested for Certification of Conformance to the specification.  The CBIIT ECCF Implementation Guide includes the CBIIT policy on the ongoing adoption of the ISO 21090 data type specification, as well as including templates for other required specification artifacts.  Development teams are free to provide additional artifacts as needed to specify the particular component being developed and to collect any additional Conformance Statements required to fully specify and ultimately test the component.  During the project’s SDLC, the project team will be expected to submit ECCF artifacts to the CBIIT Architecture Review Board for evaluation.



Additionally, the Subcontractor may be required to develop services according to previously defined ECCF specifications and may be asked to identify parts of pre-existing ECCF templates that need improvement.  These constraints will be defined either above or at project kickoff by the SAIC-F COTR.

6.4 Specification Publication Requirements



With the exception of CBIIT Platform components – which are, by definition, a specific technology implementation in-and-of-themselves – all software components defined, designed, developed, and deployed under CBIIT development contracts must be fully specified using the ECCF Specification Stack.  In addition to providing a formal framework for Conformance testing and certification (Section 6.5), use of the ECCF enables development teams to publish PIM-level specifications which may be bound to non-CBIIT platforms, and PSM-level specifications which may be deployed via multiple implementations even when bound to CBIIT platform components (e.g., site-specific implementations and localizations).

6.5 Conformance Certification Artifacts and Testing



Upon completion of a given software development project, the project team will submit its implementation and all associated ECCF documentation for Conformance testing and certification.  Teams will be expected to fully specify all services according to the CBIIT ECCF Implementation Guide even though many of the specification artifacts developed will not be able to be processed by the existing caBIG® tools and infrastructure.   Artifacts that can’t be processed, are, however, required since they will be used as examples of requirements for tools and technology infrastructure that will support the Oncology Knowledge Cloud.



It is of particular importance that artifacts explicitly document all localizations that are made throughout the Specification Stack instance.  Certain localizations – e.g., those relating to the CBIIT implementation of the ISO 21090 data types – will be pre-loaded into the Specification Stack templates of the CBIIT ECCF IG.  However, development teams may make additional localizations of processes, value sets, etc. according to their specific requirements and are, as such, required to document all such localizations.



As of the formal adoption of the ECCF, Silver Compatibility evaluation of projects has been suspended.  However, projects that believe they have compelling business or technical reasons that require them to undergo Silver Compatibility evaluation are required to make a specific request including reasons for the Silver Compatibility requirement to their project COTR for consideration by CBIIT.  Details of Silver Compatibility can be found at:  



() .  



6.6 CBIIT Platform Binding and Deployment



Within the context of the overarching Process/Capability/Core/Utility service taxonomy that describes the CBIIT Knowledge Cloud all non-platform software components developed under CBIIT contracts should be deployable as services in an implementation which is bound to/incorporates use of the semantic services-oriented architecture (sSOA) that implements the CBIIT Knowledge Cloud Platform, i.e., developed software components will utilize the appropriate services and technologies that collectively define the CBIIT Version 2 Knowledge Management, Enterprise Security and Grid (KEG) Infrastructure.  Details of the binding and deployment of software-components-as-services to the CBIIT KEG infrastructure will include registration of static and behavioral semantics and publication of service-level contract/profile details to appropriate KEG repositories.



6.7 Build and Deployment Automation (BDA) Continuous Integration compliance



All developed software must comply with the BDA policies and procedures. The new release or software deployment is dependent upon qualifying in each category of the BDA Compliance Matrix. It will be Subcontractor’s responsibility to make any tools BDA compliant. 

Please refer to BDA Wiki Site for further details. 

6.8 Conformance to Section 508 Policies



CBIIT is tasked with the requirement of making all CBIIT software products and services Section 508 compliant as per the criteria and policies mandated by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). Subcontractor shall define tasks which demonstrate that the software being developed will meet the standards set forth by HHS’s Section 508 policy prior to release and commits to remediation of any issues that are identified by HHS’s Section 508 compliance reports.  In the context of the CBIIT ECCF, Section 508 Policies are documented as a set of Conformance Statements in the “Conceptual-level/Business Enterprise” cell (and other Conceptual-level cells if policy specifics so require) of a given software component’s software specification stack documentation.  The overall scope and planned deployment of a given software components will dictate the specifics of the transformations required to map the Conceptual-level Section 508 Conformance Statements into associated Logical-level and Implementable-level statements.  At the completion of the software development lifecycle, the resulting ECCF Specification Stack instances will enable the developed software implementation to be evaluated via an appropriate combination of human and/or automated testing for certification of Section 508 policy fulfillment. 

HHS’s Section 508 Policy may be reviewed at:



Links to HHS’s criteria and standards and general Section 508 information are found at:





6.9  Pre-Production Verification 



SAIC-F requires validation of the installation of the product.

SAIC-F requires that the first two construction phases be available to SAIC-F for installation validation when they are released. SAIC-F also requires that an engineer from the team be available via Centra and telephone conference (TC) to help guide the SAIC-F engineer with the installation on SAIC-F servers. The PMP will need to reflect this.

SAIC-F requires that the Installer Code for the third construction phase be available to SAIC-F at least six weeks before the end of the first contract year. SAIC-F also requires that an engineer from the team be available via Centra and TC to help guide the SAIC-F engineer with the installation on SAIC-F servers. The PMP will need to reflect this.

The PMP should reflect the collaboration with the BDA team on the development of the installation scripts. 

7  Deliverables



The following table contains a list of deliverables with notation of due dates.  All days identified are intended to be normal business days unless otherwise specified. The Subcontractor may suggest an alternative due date for any or all deliverables in their offer. The final schedule will be agreed to by the SAIC-F COTR and the Subcontractor, based on the Subcontractor’s proposed cost and proposed delivery schedule.

7.1  Deliverable Summary and Due Dates



The below milestones are anticipated to be part of the PMP as they are key to completing the system deployment and providing usability of the CTR for comparative effectiveness research during the award period.





7.2  Deliverable Descriptions and Acceptance Criteria

7.2.1  Descriptions and Specific Acceptance Criteria

The following Deliverables shall be developed in this project.  The offeror’s proposed project plan should clearly contain all tasks and milestones required to produce these deliverables.



All Deliverables shall be developed according to constraints lists in the “Conformance and Compliance” section above where applicable.



Documentation deliverables shall be placed on the GForge project page associated with the project.  The SAIC-F COTR will provide direction regarding the specific GForge location. The Subcontractor shall submit all software deliverables in electronic media to Subversion on the GForge project page associated with the project as specified by the SAIC-F COTR. 



A notification of upload or subsequent updates to any deliverables on GForge shall be forwarded via email to both the SAIC-F COTR and the SAIC-F Subcontracts Specialist.



Deliverable: Project Management Plan

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

The Subcontractor shall develop a Project Management Plan describing the means to accomplish project objectives. The PMP shall:

Include a work breakdown structure (WBS) encompassing planning, tracking, execution, and completion activities for all tasks. Proposed deliverable due dates may be requested per the deliverable schedule in the Deliverables/Deliverables Schedule section below.

Describe the technical approach, organizational resources and management controls employed to meet the cost, performance, and schedule requirements for this effort.

Detail the products, methods for producing deliverables, allocation of staff and other resources necessary to produce deliverables, and timelines.

Describe any GFE/GFI

Outline the risk management plan for the project. 

Indicate task dependencies, task dates, resource loading, and updated milestones and deliverable dates 

Appropriate task dependencies 

Appropriate methodologies 

Staff and resource allocation 

Timeline



PMP’s shall include an MS Project formatted document including the WBS, and MS Word documents describing any other plans (e.g. Management Approach, Risk). This draft WBS shall encompass any milestone reviews, as well as any requested Subcontractor supplied dates for Deliverables.  Based on review of the PMP, the SAIC-F COTR will provide approval to move forward on planned activities. The Subcontractor shall request prior approval for all activities not included in the PMP or any modifications to the plan after approval has been given. The final PMP, including any approved changes, shall be submitted as a deliverable at the end of the project.  



Acceptable Project Management Plans will include the above information, in the formats requested, in sufficient detail to cover all objectives and deliverables requested in this RFP.   Acceptable Project Management Plans shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable: Updated Project Charter

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

Acceptance criteria will be based upon the documents ability to clearly convey what the goals of the project are, what the various components are, and what are the steps to achieving the end state. The Charter should be written so that a non technical person can understand the projects direction.



Deliverable: Monthly Status Report

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

The Subcontractor shall document technical and financial status in detailed Monthly Status Reports. All monthly technical and financial reports will be delivered in the template format provided by the SAIC-F COTR during the project kickoff meeting.  Monthly Status Reports shall be submitted directly to both the SAIC-F COTR and SAIC-F contract specialist.  The monthly report will include information such as the following:  Program status overview, including status of deliverables/milestones; Description of activities completed during the month; Description of activities planned for the next month; Description of resolution(s) to previously-identified issues/obstacles; Delineation of risk factors that may delay completion of planned items and recommended solution(s). 



Deliverable:  Monthly Financial Report

Description and Acceptance Criteria:

Budgeted total and budgeted monthly hours; Actual hours expended for the reporting period by unit, including breakdown by labor category and name; Actual hours expended to date by task, including breakdown by labor category and name, task totals and task order total; Actual costs to date and for the reporting period (based on actual hours); Estimated Cost to Completion; Estimated Cost at Completion; Task/Cost variance (for >10% variance include explanation/analysis); Other direct cost (ODC) progress/costs.



In addition, the Subcontractor shall participate in periodic status telecons with the SAIC-F COTR at the direction and period as specified by the SAIC-F COTR.  Periodic telecons will be held at no greater than weekly frequency, but focused status telecons to address specific issues may also be requested.



The monthly status report shall be delivered in the template supplied by the SAIC-F COTR with all fields completed.  Any exceptions must be approved by the SAIC-F COTR.  It shall be sent via email directly to the SAIC-F COTR and Subcontracts Specialist.  Acceptable Monthly Status reports will contain the complete set of requested information in the format requested.



Acceptable Monthly Status Reports will include the above information, in the formats requested, and in sufficient detail to cover all work performed during the reporting period.   Acceptable monthly status reports shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable: Project Summary Report

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

The Subcontractor shall submit a Project Summary Report at the conclusion of the project. This report shall describe the work accomplished, issues encountered and resolutions to them, recommendations for future enhancements, potential implementation strategies, and lessons learned. The final version of the project summary report, including any approved changes made during review, shall be delivered to the SAIC-F COTR in electronic form (Microsoft Word™ format) at the completion of the project.



The Project Summary Report shall be delivered in Microsoft Word format and shall describe the work accomplished against each task in this Statement of Work and its success in meeting the goals and objectives of the project. All products produced by this work shall be described.  Any issues encountered, resolutions, and lessons learned shall also be given.  For any project deploying Grid Services, either Analytical or Data, a sustainment plan for these services should be included. 



Summary Reports will include all of the above information, in sufficient detail so that a reader familiar with this RFP will be able to judge progress against all tasks in the Statement of Work contained herein.  Acceptable project summary reports shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D. ) 



Deliverable:  Use Cases

Description and Acceptance Criteria: Use cases documentation may be in either UML or textual format.  Use cases shall detail actors (actors) of the system, actions initiated by those, pre-and post conditions of the use case, and branches.  Acceptable use case deliverables will include a set of use cases containing this information, which as a whole provide coverage for all of the capability requested in this RFP, and which clearly depict the intended users and use of the fully developed, deployed system.  Subcontractor derived Use Cases must be consistent with any provided Enterprise-wide Use Cases.  Acceptable use case document shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable:  Software Implementation Plan  

Description and Acceptance Criteria:

An acceptable Implementation plan shall describe, at a minimum, the technical environment within which the product (e.g., HW, OS, Middleware) is to be developed, the external dependencies, the teams and locations that will perform the development, the procedures to be used for the development (e.g.,

lifecycle model, CM) and a detailed schedule. Acceptable implementation plan shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable:  Requirements Traceability Matrix

Description and Acceptance Criteria:

Requirements traceability matrix will be inspected for completeness and clarity in terms of the relationship of Requirements to Design and Test Cases. Acceptable requirements traceability matrix shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable:  System and Software Design, including Access and Security

Description and Acceptance Criteria:

Design documentation shall contain at a minimum design artifacts describing both the architecture and design of the products to be developed.  These can be presented in the design framework of the Subcontractor’s choice, although UML is preferred.  Acceptable design documents will include at least the following: assumptions and dependencies, general constraints, architectural strategies and development methods, system and subsystem architecture, and detailed system and subsystem design - both static and dynamic.  These must be presented in sufficient breadth and detail to cover the complete set of requirements as outlined in this Statement of Work. 



Functionality covered in design shall include all security considerations including role based security access including Authentication, Authorization, Auditing, User Access Management and Administration, Ability to administer the roles and access by person and organization.  It will be able to secure all trials; the default is no access other than provided by approved roles.  The ability to open or secure trial data by arms or cohorts, as trial data is completed



Acceptable system and software design documents shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



Deliverable: System design specification 

Acceptance Criteria: The System Design and Implementation Plan shall include at a minimum, the following: 



System and Software Design; Design documentation shall contain at a minimum design artifacts describing both the architecture and design of the products to be developed and functional or scientific description of each service or product, description of the planned technical architecture of each service or product (e.g., whether a service is web-based, input formats, output formats, and data constraints); for data services a description of data sets and elements that will be made available; and a description of the preliminary deployment plan for each service or product.



These can be presented in the design framework of the Subcontractor’s choice, although UML is preferred.  Acceptable design documents will include at least the following: assumptions and dependencies, general constraints, architectural strategies and development methods, system and subsystem architecture, and detailed system and subsystem design - both static and dynamic.  These must be presented in sufficient breadth and detail to cover the complete set of requirements as outlined in this Statement of Objectives.

  

The Subcontractor shall create and update a detailed implementation plan for all planned products and services to be developed.  The implementation plan shall describe the technical environment within which the product (e.g. HW, OS, Middleware) is to be developed, the external dependencies, the procedures to be used for the development (e.g. lifecycle model, Code management (CM) and a detailed schedule for the development.



Deliverable: Software Code Base

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

Test Results acceptance  

Evidence that all code has been placed in CM

Adequate commenting of source code (adequate will mean that at a minimum, each function point of the code has at least one comment)

Build Documentation

Demonstration that software retrieved from the delivered code base can be successfully built.



Deliverable: Test Package

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

Test Package shall include the Test Plan and the Test Results;

Test Plan: The System and Software test plan shall describe at a minimum, what is to be tested and what are the criteria for passing each test, the strategy to be employed for each test, the testing environment (Hw/Sw to be employed), and the testing schedule.  At a minimum documentation of unit testing will be required by the developer of all code used in the system. Acceptable System and Software Test plans will be those that provide complete test coverage both from a User perspective, i.e., can be traced to all steps of the delivered use cases, and from a functional perspective, i.e., that can be traced to all newly developed features and functions implied by the system and software detailed design. The test package should also describe the SDTM data set categories to be used to test the system, e.g., SAS datasets and complexity of datasets and type of trials. Acceptable test plan shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D. 

 )



Test Results; Test results documentation shall be in a user-defined format.  Acceptable Test Results Documentation must include a description of the actual tests run and the results for all test cases described in the System and Software Test Plan.  The documentation of the test procedures must be given in sufficient detail so that the SAIC-F COTR will be able to determine whether the test provided adequate coverage of the feature or function being tested.  Delivery of actual test scripts is acceptable as long as a text-based summary of each is also provided.  Conditions under which each test was run shall be described together with a description of whether the test was passed or not according to the criteria stated in the Test Plan.  Test Results Deliverable will not be accepted until evidence has been given that all tests in the test plan have successfully been executed and all tests have passed, unless exceptions are specifically allowed by the SAIC-F COTR.  The SAIC-F COTR may request a visual demonstration of tests specified in the Test Plan as part of final acceptance. Acceptable test results shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )

Test status dashboard shall follow 508 compliance (36CFR, subpart B, § 1194.22, 



Deliverable: Deployment Package

Description and Acceptance Criteria: 

Installation Package; Release Notes; Installation Guide; The application Installer, Installation Guide and Release notes shall be accepted upon successful use of these by the SAIC-F COTR or his or designated representative to install the application within the environment provided during the pre-production verification.



Installation guide acceptance is contingent upon completeness of the guide, i.e.. that no missing steps are discovered in the course of the installation test.  Release Notes must contain a complete set of user related issues as checked against the developer’s internal bug tracking system.



Installation guide in MS Word and PDF format shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D. )

Online installation/deployment guide shall follow 508 compliance (36CFR, subpart B, § 1194.22, 



Deliverable:  Software Product Documentation

Acceptance Criteria:

Software Code acceptance

The documentation is complete from the perspective of the intended user, i.e., that it addresses all major end-user functions as defined by the system use cases, and application development areas as defined in the detailed and API design documentation.



Deliverable:  Product Demonstration

Acceptance Criteria:  Accepted Product Demonstrations will be those that demonstrate all newly developed end-user features without issues. Any documents in electronic format shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D. )



Deliverable: ECCF Documentation for a SDTM Validation Service

Deliverable: ECCF Documentation for a SDTM Load Service



If the architecture and design determines that the same service will be used for the publicly available validation service, the same ECCF Documents can be used highlighting any differences.



Description and Acceptance Criteria for all CTR Service deliverables: 

The Subcontractor shall develop the CIM (Computationally Independent Model and Service Specification) the Platform Independent Model (PIM), and the Platform Specific Model (PSM) using the standard templates provided by NCI CBIIT.  The link is: .  



Below outlines the content for those documents:



Computationally Independent Model and Service Specification) the Platform Independent Model  (CIM): This report should outline the formal specification of the Computationally Independent Model .

 It should include the following sections:

Vision

Scope

Business Context

Storyboards

Use Case Specifications (Activity Diagrams)

Use Case Realizations

Business Operations, including traceability

Profiles

Implementable Information Model

Architectural Proof-Of-Concept/Mockup

Wire Frame Diagrams

Dependencies

Glossary

Platform Independent Model: This report should define a specification that provides full detail for all functions, interfaces, and data elements of the service in a technology neutral manner.  It should include the following sections:

Implementation Considerations 

Information Model 

Control Data Type Definitions 

Interfaces 

Dynamic Model Elements 

Profiles (both Functional and Semantic) 

Relationship with Other Services 

Platform Independent Conformance and Compliance Statements 

 Platform Specific Model: This report should define a specific implementation of the specification defined in the PIM. It should include the following sections:

Assumptions and Dependencies 

Specific Service Interface 

Message Information Model 

Service Interactions 

Implementation Considerations 

Deployment Details 

Specific Constraints 

Specific Conformance and Compliance Statements

ECCF Documents shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D.  )



All work will be reconciled to meet the expectations of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) Enterprise Performance Life Cycle Framework .



Deliverable: Completed EPLC Design Template

SAIC-F COTR will provide EPLC Design Template that has been modified to also include ECCF deliverables. 

Description and Acceptance Criteria:  

A EPLC design template should effectively define the architecture and system design in order to give the development team guidance on architecture of the system to be developed. Design documents are incrementally and iteratively produced during the system development life cycle, based on the particular circumstances of the IT project and the system development methodology used for developing the system.  These documents are initially created during the Planning Phase of the project and updated as necessary throughout the design process.  



Deliverable: EPLC CTR Detailed Design Review Document

Description and Acceptance Criteria:  

Following the EPLC Stage Gate Preliminary Design Review , and updating of planning documents as necessary throughout the design process, the final versions are input to the EPLC project Detailed Design Review.  This document should enable the entire project team to understand the scope, architecture, business and analytical models, and complete system design, including any user interfaces to sufficiently develop the code, interfaces and services, and build and deploy the pre-production system.



Quality assurance (QA) and quality control (QC). QA/QC should be embedded throughout the life-cycle and approach defined in the project management plan and a separate quality assurance plan.

User acceptance – User acceptance for software products will be documented by stakeholders’ signature(s) on software design documents and test plan, as well as completed software user testing documentation.  The intent of involving stakeholders at all stages of design and testing is to ensure the software performs as per their specific needs and meets the documented design requirements.  These signatures will represent that the relevant stakeholders have (1) participated in the requirements generation, test design, and user testing;(2) ensured the software performs according to the parameters specified in the design documents; and (3) properly executed the approved test plan carried out at their site.

Subcontractor User Acceptance – User acceptance for software will be documented by Subcontractor’s signature(s) on a sign-off page for the Final release iteration.  These signatures and dates will represent that the Subcontractor:

Conducted software or solution development according to defined processes.

Conducted quality assurance and quality control activities (e.g., white-box and unit testing) during the development process.

Conducted software defect reporting and responded to software defect reports from the Adopter(s).



Deliverable: BDA Submission Package

Description and Acceptance Criteria:  

Compliance Matrix: The Subcontractor must provide a BDA Compliance Matrix with the package. It is expected that the product or application must have a pass status (green check mark) under each BDA specified category. If a specific category is not applicable, there must be an approval with a valid justification from Program Office and BDA team. For further information, please refer to





BDA Feedback Report: This brief report must clearly articulate the gaps and any issues faced by the project or product team from business and technical perspectives. From the technical perspective, the report must provide an analysis and concrete suggestions upon improving the BDA technology stack, potentially introducing any new technologies and their viability, specifically the suggestions to create or improve a generic GUI installer from BDA’s perspective, and any BDA code base bugs or concerns. From the business perspective, the report must incorporate the suggestions upon improving the interface process between the BDA team, project team, and any other teams. From NCI’s BDA team, this report will act as a lessons learned document.



Product Install QA Report: The Subcontractor must document the findings from installing the product or application prior to its release. Any issues or deficiencies in the process or technology need to be documented. This report will include FAQs and links to required software prerequisites and any required utilities along with installation instructions to conduct a full product or application install.



BDA Software Test Plan and Scenarios: The BDA Software Test Plan and potential scenarios must be accompanied with well documented software. The test plan must be comprehensive and must stay current during the life cycle of the project. The Test Plan must ensure that the BDA code base for this specific project accomplishes the required functionality. Also, the Test Plan and software code base must be structured per module in the product or application basis.



BDA Software Test Results: The document must describe the test results in a clear concise manner accompanying the input and outputs for each scenario. The testing process must be automated to produce the results with minimal intervention.

All DBA reports, test plans/test cases and test results shall follow 508 compliance guidance (§ 1194.1, § 1194.2, and § 1194.41 subpart D. )



BDA Software Code: The customization of BDA software code base should be well documented, easy to maintain, and understand. There must be automated scripts for initiating the install and have descriptive error messages in case of an exception scenario. The test code should be modular enough to be independently changed for each module or portion of the product or project. The software code base must accompany with automated scripts which may clean up the effects from any failed scenarios.



Deliverable:  Error reports, status reports, etc., on study data sets processed

Acceptance Criteria:  Report must be complete, accurate and help to inform the development team who will fix the bugs.



Deliverable:  CTR Data Model, including logical data model and physical data model.

Acceptance Criteria:  The CTR data model will be deemed acceptable upon demonstration of successful submission, validation, and load of clinical trial data using validation and load services, and the creation of SDTM materialized views that are error free. The models should address all structures needed, (e.g., record structure, fields, relations), data content (for demos, testing, and final production system testing), and procedures (e.g., automatic access/verification).



The Subcontractor shall produce software architecture and design artifacts, including detail -specifications of the automated data validation, and load processes to be developed. These artifacts should include UML class diagrams required by caBIG® compatibility guidelines for caBIG® compliant services. The Subcontractor shall conduct and submit at least one formal design review as described below to the SAIC-F COTR, NCI-Project Officer, and/or their designated representatives.  For iterative developments, after the initial design review, updates to the design documentation shall be completed and approved by the SAIC-F COTR before each planned increment.



Deliverable:  User Access Management and Administration Procedures

Acceptance Criteria:  Procedure document should take into account all users anticipated to access the system.  All procedures invoked by administrators should be covered in the form of Standard Operating Procedures.



Deliverable: Information System Security Plan

Acceptance Criteria:

The system security plan implements the guidance provided by NIST-SP800-18 “Guide For Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems”, and incorporates the following items:



Information System name/Title

Information System Owner

Authorizing Official

Other Designated contacts

Assignment of security Responsibilities

Information system Operational Status

Information System Type

General System Description/Purpose

System Environment

System Interconnections/information Sharing

Related Laws/Regulations/Policies

Minimum Security Controls

Information System Security plan Completion Date

Information System Security Plan Approval Date:



See  for detail



Deliverable: Security Risk Assessment

Acceptance Criteria: The Security Risk Assessment implements the guidance provided by NIST-SP800-30 “Risk Management Guide for Information Technology Systems”, including the following items: 

System Characterization

Threat Identification

Vulnerability Identification

Control Analysis

Likelihood Determination

Impact Analysis

Risk Determination

Control Recommendations

Results Documentation



See  for detail

8  Project Kickoff



An initial kick off meeting will be held within 7 calendar days of award or as agreed to by the SAIC-F COTR.  This will be attended by the SAIC-F COTR and SAIC-F Subcontracts Specialist, and the NCI Project Officer.  Key Subcontractor personnel as well as a representative from the Subcontractor’s contracts organization are required to attend.  The intent of the kickoff is for all key personnel to meet to discuss the project overall technical and contractual requirements. 

At this meeting, the Subcontractor shall be prepared to discuss the following;



Technical Objectives

Preliminary Project Plan

Deliverables and Deliverable Acceptance Criteria

Reporting and Invoice Requirements


Appendix A



The following terminology is used throughout this document:

Cross-Cutting Workspaces – the Architecture (ARCH) Workspace and Vocabularies and Common Data Elements (VCDE) Workspace constitute the Cross-Cutting Workspaces. 

Domain Dependent Workspaces – Clinical Trials Management Systems (CTMS), Imaging, Tissue Banks and Pathology Tools (TBPT), Integrative Cancer Research (ICR)

NCI-CBIIT – National Cancer Institute Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology

NCI-PO – NCI-Project Officer

SAIC-F COTR – SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Contracting Officer's Technical Representative 

SOO – Statement of Objectives

Adopter – an organization with a formal relationship with the Developer that serves as a site for formal testing, validation, and application of developed products or solutions.

CDE – Common Data Element

CRF – Case Report Form

Developer – an organization selected and funded by the NCI-CBIIT to participate in a specific Workspace and undertake software/solution development and implementation activities. For a full list of the responsibilities of a caBIG® Developer, see the caBIG® Overview Workspace & Working Group Kick-off Meeting Handbook distributed in February, 2004 (https://caBIG.nci.nih.gov/overview/kickoff_meeting_feb_2004/).

NCI-CBIIT – National Cancer Institute Center for Biomedical Informatics and Information Technology

NCI-PO – NCI-Project Officer

SOW – Statement of Work


Appendix B

CTMS BAM for reference:   



Current ECCF document templates (includes Conceptual, PIM, and PSM service specification templates :





Current set of BRIDG compliant CTRP COPPA service specifications:





Link to the BRIDG model:   



Enterprise Architecture Wiki Site for ECCF: .  



Life Sciences Distribution Tech Stack





Clinical Sciences Distribution Tech Stack (password required)








Appendix C



CBIIT has adopted the HL7 Services-Aware Interoperability Framework (SAIF) including its Enterprise Conformance and Compliance Framework (ECCF), Behavioral Framework (BF), Information Framework (IF), and Governance Framework.  Under Composite Architecture Team (CAT) technical direction, the next generation of CBIIT  software is moving to a Services Oriented Architecture (SOA), including The caBIG® Clinical Trials Suite, caTissue, Clinical Trials Reporting Program (CTRP), Federal Investigator Registry of Biomedical Information Research Data (FIREBIRD), Protocol Lifecycle Tracking (PLT), National Biomedical Imaging Archive (NBIA), CTR and TRANSCEND.   All these systems will focus on the interoperability and data sharing using the (ECCF). 



The major goal of ECCF is enabling Working Interoperability between different users, organizations, and systems. The ECCF defines a specification stack (SS) that provides an organizational framework in which inter-related artifacts are sorted by content – for example, business rules, information constructors, behavioral contracts, and level-of-abstraction. The specification stack (SS) is a 3-row by 4-column matrix that represents a collection of artifacts, which collectively and unambiguously defines the subject of the collection.  Each Row in the specifications stack are levels of abstraction that map to the Object Management Group’s (OMG) Model-Driven Architecture (MDA) framework:

Computationally Independent model (CIM)

Platform-Independent model (PIM)

Platform-Specific model (PSM)

The columns represent four of the five Reference Model for Open Distributed Processing (RM-ODP) viewpoints: 

Business/Enterprise

Informational

Computational

Engineering 

An example of the set of Artifacts can be seen in the following figure:







The template for Scope and Vision Document, and the Service Interface Documents, as well as the service specification process document, can be found on the NCI Wiki at the following link: . 



Using the ECCF, CBIIT has started the development of the NCI Enterprise Services (NES) for the next generation of software.  Under the direction of the CAT and the management of the Enterprise Services Specification Team (ESST), the service inventory has been defined; selected services are in various stages of their specification, up to including implemented and deployed.  The status of the service development can be found at the following link: .






ATTACHMENT 7





Assignment Document




ASSIGNMENT

by 

Name of Subcontractor

to

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services





Whereas Subcontractor Name of Subcontractor was engaged by SAIC-Frederick, Inc. to provide the National Cancer Institute (an agency of the United States Department of Health & Human Services (“HHS”) and an institute of the National Institutes of Health (”NIH”) with technical expertise, software programming, and software for the Name of Project (“the Work”) under Subcontract No. or BOA No. and Task Order No. (“the Contract”); and



Whereas, the Contract included FAR provision 52.227-14 and ARTICLE H.8.  ADDITIONAL INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL DELIVERABLES, which provides that the Subcontractor may assert copyright in the Work without the prior express written permission of the Contracting Officer and that the Subcontractor will assign its ownership interest in software made under the Contract; and



Whereas, the parties to this assignment agree that it is in the interest of both parties for the work to be protected by copyright so that its integrity as a valuable research and medical tool can be protected; and



Whereas, the parties further agree that it is therefore desirable for Name of Subcontractor to assert copyright in the Work for the sole limited purpose of assigning it to the United States, subject to a license to Name of Subcontractor that is set out below; and  



Whereas, the Contracting Officer has so instructed Subcontractor Name of Subcontractor to assign its copyright to the Government, subject to said license to Name of Subcontractor;



Therefore, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and in consideration of the Contract, Name of Subcontractor hereby irrevocably assigns to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, its successors and assigns, the entire worldwide right, title and interest in any actual or inchoate rights owned or controlled by Name of Subcontractor, its employees, contractors or affiliates under its control, in the Work including, without limitation, all copyrights and moral rights, subject to the irrevocable non-exclusive right to use, disclose, reproduce, prepare derivative works, distribute copies to the public, and perform publicly and display publicly, in any manner and for any purpose, and to have or permit others to do so. 


The undersigned, agreeing to be bound on the date of the last signature below, hereto affix their marks:





































































FOR SAIC-FREDERICK, Inc.





___________________________          _________________

Greg Davis					Date

Manager, Research Subcontracts



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

A subsidiary of Science Applications International Corporation



1.  Subcontract No.

10ST1125

1.  Subcontract No.

10ST1125

1.  Subcontract No.

10ST1125

1.  Subcontract No.

10ST1125

1.  Subcontract No.

10ST1125

2.  Solicitation No.

ST10-1125



2.  Solicitation No.

ST10-1125



2.  Solicitation No.

ST10-1125



2.  Solicitation No.

ST10-1125



3.  Date Issued

12/10/2010



3.  Date Issued

12/10/2010



3.  Date Issued

12/10/2010



Page 1 of 84

Page 1 of 84

Page 1 of 84

Page 1 of 84

Page 1 of 84



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



 4.   Sales and Use Tax Direct Pay Permit No. 3  



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



5.   Sealed Bid (IFB) Solicitation

      Negotiated (RFP)  Solicitation



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0910ST



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0910ST



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0910ST



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0910ST



6.  Requisition No.  

2H0910ST



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



8.	Delivery Date:  n/a



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



9.	Place of Delivery:  n/a



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



7.	Issued By:			Address Offer To:



 		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.		SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

		Research Contracts Dept		Research Contracts Dept.

        P.O. Box B	

	 	  21702		



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination



10.	FOB: Destination

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION

SOLICITATION



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



11.	To be timely, offers must be received as requested in Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors NO LATER THAN 4:00 PM (EST) ON JANUARY 24, 2011     This effort will be fully funded using ARRA funds.



12.	FOR INFORMATION:



12.	FOR INFORMATION:



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Name:  Kimberly A. Iman



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



Telephone No.  NO TELEPHONE CALLS ACCEPTED

Email questions in writing to  or by facsimile at 301-228-4037 by 12:00 PM (EST) January 4, 2011.



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        



OFFER/SUBCONTRACT CONSISTS OF:

		Part 1 – The Schedule	                                   Part 2 – Contract Clauses

              A.  Solicitation/Contract Form 	                                                                                	I.  Contract Clauses	

              B.  Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs                                                    	Part 3 – List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

              C.  RFP Statement of Objectives	                                                  			J.  List of Attachments

              D.  Packaging and Marking                                                                          	Part 4 – Representations and Instructions

              E.  Inspection and Acceptance	                                                                                 	K.  Representations, Certifications and Other Statements 

              F.  Deliveries or Performance	                                                                                 	L.  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Offerors

              G.  Contract Administration Data           	                                                               	M.  Evaluation Factors for Award

              H.  Special Contract Requirements	                                        

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE

SCHEDULE



ITEM NO.



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



SUPPLIES/SERVICES



QTY.



QTY.



QTY.



QTY.



UNIT



UNIT



UNIT



UNIT



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



UNIT PRICE



AMOUNT







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6







See Attachment 6



































13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



13.	If this offer is accepted within 90 calendar days from the date for receipt of offers specified above, the offeror shall be required to furnish any or all items or services in accordance with the terms of the offer.  



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



14.	DISCOUNT FOR PROMPT PAYMENT



(In connection with any discount for prompt payment, time shall be computed from the date of invoice acceptance.)



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



10 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



20 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



30 CALENDAR DAYS      



%



__    CALENDAR DAYS      



%



__    CALENDAR DAYS      



%



__    CALENDAR DAYS      



%



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



DATE



DATE



DATE



DATE



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



AMENDMENT NO.



DATE



DATE



DATE



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)











































































15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)



15.	ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AMENDMENTS

(The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the solicitation for offerors and related documents numbered and dated)











































































16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











16.	Name and Address of Offeror (include Offeror’s DUNS Number):











17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:





17.	Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer:



18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

18.	Submission of a signed offer constitutes an understanding and unqualified acceptance of all terms, conditions, obligations and statements or certifications made herein (or by reference) or as attached hereto.

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

19.	Signature

20.	Date

20.	Date

20.	Date

20.	Date

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD

AWARD



21.	Accepted As To Items Numbered:    



21.	Accepted As To Items Numbered:    



21.	Accepted As To Items Numbered:    



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



22.	Amount:   



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



23.	Accounting Data:  TBD



24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







24.	Name/Title of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC      







25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



25.	Signature of Person Authorized to Sign-SAIC



26.	Award Date



26.	Award Date



Subcontract Period

Period Covered

Status

Base Period

Award through September 30, 2013

Exercised at Award



Dr. Steven Silberman

Dr. Steven Silberman

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Telephone:  301-693-7957

E-mail: 



Kimberly A. Iman

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Telephone:  301-228-4033

E-mail:  





Dr. Steven Silberman

SAIC-Frederick, Inc.

Telephone:  301-693-7957

E-mail:  





PRINT NAME



TITLE



ORGANIZATION



ADDRESS



ADDRESS



PHONE NUMBER



FAX NUMBER



E-MAIL ADDRESS





PRINT NAME



TITLE



ORGANIZATION



ADDRESS



ADDRESS



PHONE NUMBER



FAX NUMBER



E-MAIL ADDRESS



NAME



TITLE

































FAR 

Clause No.



Clause Title





52.203-3

Gratuities 

52.203-5

Covenant Against Contingent Fees

52.203-6

Restrictors on Subcontractor Sales to the Government

52.203-7

Anti-Kickback Procedures

52.203-8

Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for illegal or Improper Activity

52.203-10

Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity

52.203-11

Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions

52.203-12

Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions

52.203-13

Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct

52.203-14

Display of Hotline Posters

52.203-15

Whistleblower Protections Under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009

52.204-4

Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper

52.204-11

American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements

52.209-6

Protecting the Government’s Interests When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment

52.215-2

Audit and Records – Negotiation, Alternate I

52.215-10

Price Reduction for Defective Cost or Pricing Data

52.215-12

Subcontractor Cost or Pricing Data

52.215-14

Integrity of Unit Prices 

52.215-15

Pension Adjustments and Asset Reversions

52.215-18

Reversion or Adjustment of Plans for Postretirement Benefits (PRB) Other than Pensions

52.215-19

Notification of Ownership Changes

52.215-21

Requirements for Cost or Pricing Data or Information Other Than Cost or Pricing Data—Modifications

52.219-8

Utilization of Small Business Concerns 

52.219-9

Small Business Subcontracting Plan

52.219-16

Liquidated Damages—Subcontracting Plan

52.222-3

Convict Labor

52.222-21

Prohibition of Segregated Facilities

52.222-25

Affirmative Action Compliance

52.222-26

Equal Opportunity

52.222-35

Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans

52.222-36

Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities

52.222-37

Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans and Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans

52.222-50

Combating Trafficking in Persons

52.223-6

Drug-Free Workplace

52.223-14

Toxic Chemical Release Reporting

52.225-1

Buy American Act—Supplies

52.225-13

Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases

52.227-1

Authorization and Consent, Alternate I 

52.227-11

Patent Rights—Ownership by the Contractor

52.227-14

Rights in Data – General

52.232-23

Assignment of Claims

52.242-13

Bankruptcy

52.242-15

Stop Work Order

52.244-2

Subcontracts

52.245-1

Government Property

52.245-9

Use and Charges

52.246-6

Inspection – Time-and-Material and Labor-Hour 

52.246-25

Limitation of Liability – Services



HHSAR Clause No.



Clause Title

352.249-14

Excusable Delays

352.270-5

Key Personnel

352.270-7

Paper Reduction Act



1.



SAIC Frederick Terms and Conditions (dated 10/2007)







2.



SAIC-Frederick, Inc. Invoice Instructions







3.



Subcontracting Certification







4.



Cost Estimate Worksheet







5.



ARRA Representations & Certifications







6.



Section C – RFP Statement of Objectives







7.



Copyright Assignment



Report shall be submitted by the Subcontractor and included with the invoice under which reimbursement for the acquisition of authorized accountable personal property is requested.  



1.	Enter date prepared.

2.	Enter Public Voucher (or invoice) Number

3.	Enter complete contract number.

4.	Enter number of this report.  (Reports will be numbered serially beginning with No. 1 for each subcontract).  Enter page number of pages.

5.	Enter name and telephone number of Subcontractor’s representative responsible for report.

6.	Indicate type of report.

7.	Enter name of responsible party and physical address for which the equipment will be located.  

	If separate pieces of equipment are purchased and are placed at different locations, submit a separate report for each location.

8.	Leave Blank.  For Contracting Agency Use Only.

9.	Enter Line Item Number.  Each Report shall begin with the Number 1.

10-14.	Identify fully the property being reported.

15.	Enter unit Acquisition Cost of the item.

16.	This item shall be completed for inventory reporting.  For Government Owned property, enter identification number.

17.	Leave Blank

18.	Enter month and year property was received as reflected on receipt.

19.	Enter signature and title of person authorized to certify the accuracy of the report.

20.	Leave Blank.  For Contracting Agency Use Only.





REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



1.  Date







2.  Public Voucher No.







2.  Public Voucher No.







2.  Public Voucher No.







REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



REPORT OF CAPITALIZED NON-EXPENDABLE EQUIPMENT



3.  Contract No.







4.  Report No.







Page No.

1



No. of Pages

1



5.  Person Responsible



     Telephone:







6.  Type of Report



 Acquisition - Govt. Titled

 Acquisition - Contractor Titled

 Annual Inventory

 Final Inventory



7.  Name and Address of Contractor







7.  Name and Address of Contractor







8.  SAIC Use Only







8.  SAIC Use Only









9. Item No.



10. Description



10. Description



11. GFP/CAP



12. Manufacturer



13. Model



14. Serial



15. Cost



16. Govt. ID



17. Acq. Aut.



17. Acq. Aut.



18. Date

















































































































































































































































































































































19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



19. Authentication By Contractor=s Supervisory Accounting Official



Signature:                                                                  	Date:                        



20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







20. Accepted by Authorized SAIC-Frederick Inc. Representative







Voucher No.







Voucher No.







Name (Typed)







Name (Typed)







Title







Title







Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Signature & Title







Date







Date







FROM



Date of Award

THROUGH



9/30/2013



DIRECT LABOR

DIRECT LABOR

DIRECT LABOR

DIRECT LABOR

LABOR

CATEGORY

HOURLY RATE

# OF HOURS

TOTAL DIRECT LABOR















































































OTHER DIRECT COSTS:

OTHER DIRECT COSTS:

OTHER DIRECT COSTS:

OTHER DIRECT COSTS:

CONSULTANT/SUBCONTRACT COSTS (*Additional information may be requested*)

(List names and services to be provided and price for each)



CONSULTANT/SUBCONTRACT COSTS (*Additional information may be requested*)

(List names and services to be provided and price for each)



CONSULTANT/SUBCONTRACT COSTS (*Additional information may be requested*)

(List names and services to be provided and price for each)









EQUIPMENT (Provide description and price for each item)





EQUIPMENT (Provide description and price for each item)





EQUIPMENT (Provide description and price for each item)











SUPPLIES (Provide itemized list with prices and backup documents)





SUPPLIES (Provide itemized list with prices and backup documents)





SUPPLIES (Provide itemized list with prices and backup documents)











OTHER DIRECT COSTS (Provide itemized list with prices)





OTHER DIRECT COSTS (Provide itemized list with prices)





OTHER DIRECT COSTS (Provide itemized list with prices)











B.  SUBTOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS

B.  SUBTOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS

B.  SUBTOTAL OTHER DIRECT COSTS








TOTAL 

(Subtotal Direct Labor + Subtotal Other Direct Costs)




TOTAL 

(Subtotal Direct Labor + Subtotal Other Direct Costs)




TOTAL 

(Subtotal Direct Labor + Subtotal Other Direct Costs)









NAME



TITLE

TOTAL COMPENSATION

































DELIVERABLE

DUE DATE

Project Management Deliverables

Project Management Deliverables

Project Management Plan



Updated Project Charter

Draft SLA(Service Level Agreement)

 Final Service Level Agreement

Initial PMP draft with Offer

Final PMP 20 days following Project Kickoff

Updated PMP and Project Charter Yearly

Draft SLA with proposals

Final SLA 30 days following award



Monthly Status Report

Monthly Financial Report

10th of each month

Project Summary Report

No later than 30 Days Before Project Completion

Product Development Deliverables

Product Development Deliverables

Design Review Package

Use Cases

Software Implementation Plan  

Requirements Traceability Matrix

System and Software Design, including Access and Security

System design specification 

CTR Data Model; including logical data model and physical data model



Security Plan



10 days before Design Review 

Updated before start of each development iteration



Software Code Base 

No later than 10 days after completion of each development iteration

Test Package

Product Demonstration

Error reports, status reports, etc., on study data sets processed



Test Plan: 10 days before Design Review

Updated before start of each development iteration

Test Results: No later than 10 days after completion of each development iteration

Deployment Package

Software Product Documentation 

User Access Management and Administration Procedures 

Security Risk Assessment



No later than 23 months

Compliance Deliverables

Compliance Deliverables





ECCF Documentation

ECCF Documentation for a SDTM Load Service

Updated ECCF Documentation for a Validation Service





Preliminary at Design Review

Updated with each development iteration

Final within 23 months

Completed EPLC Design Template

EPLC  Detailed Design Review Document



Preliminary at Design Review

Updated with each development iteration

Final within 23 months

BDA Submission Package

No later than 23 months 





Additional Milestones

Due date



Incremental Load & Testing of legacy converted data

Four month intervals; after month 10

Database operational for comparative effectiveness analysis in staging environment

18 months after Award

Deployment in staging or production environment	

24 months after Award



User support for completion of  FDA comparative analysis research

Following Production Rollout





Name of Subcontractor:



Authorized Signatory:  



Title:  





Name of Subcontractor:



Authorized Signatory:  



Title:  





_______________________                              _______________________

Signature                                                             Date





_______________________                              _______________________

Signature                                                             Date





County of  _______________________



State of  _______________________





County of  _______________________



State of  _______________________





     Subscribed and sworn to before me this ____ day of _____________, 2010.







     Subscribed and sworn to before me this ____ day of _____________, 2010.





[Seal]













_______________________



Notary Public for _________________



My Commission Expires ____________



