Attachment A Statement of Work for Solicitation CFOM-09-SO-0177 "Computer Aided Facility Management System and Services"
INTRODUCTION The Commodity Futures Trading Commission ("CFTC" or "Commission") requires Computer Aided Facility Management (CAFM) services to support its current space expansion project and additional space management activities. The contractor shall furnish the necessary software and operator to perform the work, as described below. BACKGROUND The Commission was given approval from Congress to hire 95 employees during FY09 to support the critical mission functions required of the agency. This increase requires the ongoing updating of space plans/floor plans, drawings, planning, and reconfiguration of space that would otherwise be considered unusable space. The floor plans must be kept up to date of all hires, departures, contractor and intern staff. It is critical to this project that the staffing numbers are accurate at all times and that copies of drawings can be provided to management at any given time. The floor plans will be instrumental in the planning of this project. Due to the quickness in which this planning must occur, contractor CAFM support must be acquired as soon as possible. SCOPE The CFTC has offices in each of the following cities: Washington, DC, New York City, Chicago and Kansas City. The current square footage for each location is as follows: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ DC = 161,785 sq ft CH = 40,750 sq ft NY = 39,363 sq ft KC = 8,066 sq ft

The CFTC is expecting significant growth within the agency, and thus it is necessary to review space utilization in each location and determine whether build-out of underutilized space is a possibility in addition to the possibility of acquiring additional space. The services of the contractor will be required to support this effort. The contractor shall furnish, and utilize, CAFM software for real-time management and reporting of occupancy, square footage, space type and other relevant facility information. The system shall provide access to CFTC's facility information and reporting in an easy-to use,
1

graphical interface. The system shall include access to the portal as well as technical support and the importing of "cleaned" floor plans, which have already been layered, poly-lined and tagged appropriately for import into the system (see Drawing Information Processing below). TASK DESCRIPTIONS Implementation The contractor shall perform the following subtasks during the implementation of its CAFM solution. 1. Base system configuration 2. User permissions/security configuration 3. Drawing information processing 4. Space information processing 5. Employee information processing 6. Fine-tuning / customization / configuration 7. Pilot roll-out 8. Report generation 9. Training / manual 10. Final roll-out Unless otherwise specified sooner below, all implementation subtasks shall be completed within one (1) month after contract award. A more detailed description of each subtask is provided below: Base System Configuration The contractor shall meet with the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) and other representatives from CFTC's Office of Management Operations (OMO) within three (3) work days after the contract is awarded, for the purpose of obtaining an understanding of CFTCspecific space standards. The contractor shall then work with the COTR to schedule interviewstyle meetings with CFTC stakeholders to identify any potential additional needs for the system. The contractor shall then incorporate the information received in the meeting with the COTR/OMO, as well as the feedback obtained in the stakeholder meetings, into an information map. The contractor shall obtain COTR approval on the information map before performing subsequent work on implementing its solution. The information map shall be used by the contractor in configuring the CAFM system to ensure that the resulting system data is usable, actionable and reportable information. The information map shall address considerations including, but not limited to: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Functional / reporting methods; Existing Commission standards/procedures; System usage procedures; Information technology/ system integration; and
2

ˇ

Change management procedures.

Using the approved information map, the contractor shall implement a CAFM website and database configured to correspond to the Commission's requirements. The website shall reside at a specific URL to be selected by the CFTC. The contractor shall configure the underlying database to make available all appropriate modules for the Commission. User Permissions / Security Configuration The CAFM system shall support at least eight (8) concurrent users, and shall also support varying degrees of permissions associated with categories of users. The permissions shall range from limiting various functions and portfolio to assigning the level of interactivity by the user (e.g., from read-only to full read-write-add-delete access). These permission levels will be defined based on CFTC decisions/direction during the Base System Configuration subtask. Drawing Information Processing Drawings of CFTC's locations shall be imported into the CAFM system by the contractor. Accurate software versions of the floor plans with furniture layouts supported by an appropriate release of AutoCAD will be furnished to the Contractor by others, as described below. The contractor shall process the drawings as follows: 1. Layering ­ Drawings shall conform to layering standards (e.g., electrical, lighting, furniture, etc.) for easy importing into the software package. CFTC will provide up-todate drawings from AutoCad to the contractor. 2. Poly-lining ­ Once appropriately layered, the drawings shall be poly-lined to reflect the individual spaces that are to be tracked and monitored with the CAFM software. Polylining standards shall be followed (e.g., BOMA or IFMA). Only locations of interest shall be poly-lined, excluding circulation space (e.g., hallways, etc.). 3. Tagging ­ Location numbers shall be assigned to individual spaces either on the AutoCAD drawing (i.e., through the use of block attributes or text objects) or from within the CAFM system. Space Information Processing Upon definition of the physical spaces, the attributes associated with that space shall be collected and imported into the CAFM system. The Contractor shall develop a spreadsheet with each space number uniquely identified along with its corresponding building name and floor number. Employee Information Processing CFTC staff data shall be imported into the CAFM system along with the appropriate designations and attributes. OMO and CFTC's Office of Information & Technology Services (OITS) will provide the contractor a spreadsheet or database of employees. The
3

spreadsheet/database will identify each employee with a unique identifier, as well as other information that is desired to be tracked. Additional information, identified in the Base System Configuration subtask, that is to be attributed to each employee will also be included in this spreadsheet. The employee information spreadsheet will also include the building / floor / location number for each individual employee. Fine-tuning / Customization / Configuration The contractor shall fine-tune the application required to comply with the objectives determined during the Base System Configuration subtask of the project. Additional custom fields may be generated and developed during this fine-tuning process. There will not be custom software code development needed as a result of this fine-tuning process. Pilot Roll-out The COTR will identify five or more users to pilot the initial roll-out of the system. The contractor shall coordinate this phase with the identified users. The purpose of the pilot phase is to identify issues that may arise during the normal course of using the system, such as issues with the information itself, as well as software-related issues with drawings, poly-lining, raw data, etc. The contractor shall collect the issues identified by the users, prioritize them based on CFTC's requirements, and successfully resolve them. Report Generation The contractor shall guide OMO through a process to determine whether any specific reporting is required beyond the "canned" reports that are included in the baseline CAFM software. To the extent that there are any modifications of reports required, the contractor shall assess whether the modifications are similar enough in nature to warrant a report modification. No report modifications that would increase the cost of the contract shall be implemented without prior authorization from the Contracting Officer, as evidenced by a formal modification to the contract. Training / Manual The contractor shall provide up to two, half-day training sessions on how to use the system, for up to three individuals per session. Additionally, the contractor shall also provide CFTC with an electronic version of a user manual. Final Roll-out Upon completion of all subtasks defined above, the portfolio locations and the employee database shall be imported and updated, and a final roll-out will ensue. The roll-out shall consist of written communications (i.e., for OMO to release) to those who will be logging on to the system.
4

Direct Support of Space Expansion Project and Additional Space Management Activities After the final roll-out of the CAFM system, the contractor shall provide ongoing direct support of the Commission's current space expansion project and additional space management activities. CFTC anticipates requiring up to sixty (60) hours per month of full-time support through the end of the base year of the contract. As required by the COTR, the contractor shall develop design drawings for space such as workstations to determine if it can be converted to office space and inlay furniture layouts to determine if the space will adequately support this change. The contractor shall generate reports from the CFTC Intranet and will receive all Office of Human Resources (OHR) notifications of all new hires, departures, interns and contractors in order to place personnel on the CAFM drawings. A one day turnaround shall be required for each design request. The contractor shall also perform layouts of workstations in space that will be converted from other uses, such as file rooms. A diagram of the space with a layout of the required size workstation with as many possible units shall be furnished, as required. These are the types of requests that will be typically required of the contractor and the software. CFTC does not anticipate needing dedicated support after the base year of the contract. The Commission anticipates that future work with the CAFM system will be performed solely by CFTC personnel. CAFM System Support The effective date of any system licenses, as well as technical support, shall be the effective date of contract award. License maintenance (i.e., software updates, etc.) and technical support shall run through one (1) year. Through the use of options, CFTC may extend the period for license maintenance and technical support on an annual basis for up to four (4) additional years. Technical support shall be provided from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Monday through Friday, except days the Commission is closed (e.g., Federal holidays). The contractor shall resolve reported problems within two (2) work days. PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE / LEVEL OF EFFORT The period of performance of the base requirement of this contract shall be from the effective date of award through one (1) year. The contractor shall furnish one (1) dedicated full time Administrative Services individual (estimated 180 hours) to perform the implementation subtasks. After that, CFTC anticipates requiring up to sixty (60) hours of full-time support per month (estimated 660 hours) through the end of the base year. This contract also includes four 1 year options for system maintenance and technical support. PLACE OF PERFORMANCE All direct labor for the implementation subtasks shall be performed at CFTC's Headquarters located at 1155 21st Street, NW in Washington, DC. Additional full-time support after implementation may be performed at the contractor's facility or at CFTC's Headquarters, as required by the COTR. CFTC will not provide reimbursement for commuting costs.
5

Attachment B Additional Terms and Conditions for Solicitation CFOM-09-SO-0177 "Computer Aided Facility Management System and Services"

1. PAYMENT TO CONTRACTOR The Contractor shall be paid as follows: (a) Base Year. Invoices for direct labor services (i.e., implementation and support of FY09 space expansion project), including travel (if applicable), shall be submitted monthly, either by calendar month or according to the Contractor's usual monthly billing cycle. Payment will be made for actual hours worked, and reimbursement for travel will be provided for allowable travel costs (see clause "TRAVEL COSTS"). Payment for applicable licenses shall be due upon the effective date of the contract. Payment for base year maintenance/support shall be paid quarterly in arrears in four equal payments. (b) Option Years. The total firm-fixed-price of each option year shall be paid quarterly in arrears in four equal payments. All payments are contingent upon receipt of an invoice in accordance with the instructions outlined below, and shall be made in accordance with the clause entitled "Prompt Payment". For purposes of the Prompt Payment Act, P.L. 97-177, payments under this contract will be due on the 30th calendar day after the latter of: (1) the date of actual receipt of a proper invoice in the office designated to receive, or (2) the date the supplies or services are accepted by the Government. For purposes of determining the due date for payment and for no other purpose, acceptance will be deemed to occur on the seventh calendar day after the delivery of the supplies or services in accordance with the terms of the contract. An invoice shall be prepared and submitted to the designated billing office specified herein. A proper invoice must include the information listed in items 1-6 below. If the invoice does not comply with these requirements, the Contractor will be notified of the defect within seven days after receipt of the invoice in the billing office. 1. 2. 3. 4. Name and address of the Contractor Invoice date Contract Number Description, quantity, unit of issue, unit price, and extended price of supplies delivered or services performed 5. Payment terms 6. Name and address of Contractor official to whom payment is to be sent
1

Payment will be in accordance with the clause at FAR 52.232-33 "Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003)". Invoices may be submitted by mail, e-mail or fax to the following billing office: U.S. DOT - Mike Monroney Aeronautical Center Financial Operations Division CFTC Accounts Payable Branch AMZ-150 PO Box 25710 Oklahoma City, OK 73125 E-Mail: 9-AMC-AMZ-CFTC@faa.gov

2. TRAVEL COSTS Costs for transportation, lodging, meals and incidental expenses incurred by contractor personnel on official company business are allowable subject to FAR 31.205-46, Travel Costs. These costs will be considered to be reasonable and allowable only to the extent that they do not exceed on a daily basis the maximum per diem rates in effect at the time of travel as set forth in the Federal Travel Regulations. CFTC will not provide reimbursement for local travel costs (i.e., to and from CFTC's Headquarters building) for contractors that are located within the Washington, DC metropolitan area.

3. PERSONNEL SECURITY A. Personnel suitability/security checks are required only for Contractor staff who will need access to CFTC-controlled information systems, or will need access to CFTC premises and will be unescorted while on CFTC's premises. B. Contractor staff who are expected to be employed on this contract for six months or less and who will require access to CFTC-controlled information systems and/or unescorted access to CFTC facilities shall be subject to a Special Agreement Check (hereinafter referred to as a "SAC" or "Check"). To initiate this Check, the Contractor shall ensure that such staff complete an OFI Form 86C (Special Agreement Check), an Authorization for Release of Information, and a release authorizing CFTC to obtain a credit report. This Check must be favorably adjudicated for the staff to obtain employment in this capacity. C. Contractor staff who are expected to be employed on this contract for greater than six months and who will require access to CFTC-controlled information systems and/or unescorted access to CFTC facilities will be required, at a minimum, to undergo a SAC and a National Agency Check and Inquiries (NACI). The SAC must be favorably adjudicated for the staff to obtain employment in this capacity. The NACI must be favorably adjudicated post-employment for the staff to continue employment in this capacity. Depending upon the duties assigned, CFTC
2

may require a higher level investigation, such as a Minimum Background Investigation (MBI), a Limited Background Investigation (LBI), a Background Investigation (BI), or a Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI). (NACI and higher level investigations are hereinafter referred to as "Investigations.") Any higher level Investigations must be favorably adjudicated for the staff to continue employment in this capacity. D. The Check and Investigations cited in paragraphs B and C above will not be required if: (1) Contractor staff possess a valid current Federal identity credential that is verified by the individual's former department or agency to the satisfaction of the CFTC; and (2) the individual has undergone the required Check and/or Investigations at another agency and has been favorably adjudicated. If the completed NACI occurred 15 or more years ago, the CFTC has the discretion to determine whether a new Investigation is needed and whether a higher level investigation is warranted. The Contractor shall comply with this determination and shall ensure that contractor staff complete and submit the necessary documents within the time frame established by the CFTC or risk its staff being rendered ineligible to perform under the contract with the CFTC. E.1. In the event Contractor staff referred to in paragraph D above meet the requirements of that paragraph, Contractor shall provide to the COTR the candidates' name, social security number, date of birth, and city and state of birth for verification purposes. E.2. If Contractor staff do not have current clearances or a favorably-adjudicated Check and Investigation prior to working at CFTC or gaining access to federally-controlled information systems, Contractor shall ensure that the required background investigation forms, as defined by a CFTC Personnel Security Representative, are submitted to the CFTC Personnel Security Representative as follows. Forms required under paragraph B above shall be submitted to the CFTC Personnel Security Representative not later than five days after the effective date of this contract. Forms required under paragraph C and D above shall be submitted not later than five days after they are identified by CFTC. F. Contractor staff described in paragraph B above who remain on site at CFTC for greater than six months shall be subject to the requirements of paragraph C above. G. All investigation forms are available on the Internet at http://www.opm.gov/Forms/html/sf.asp or from the CFTC Personnel Security Representative at the following address: CFTC Personnel Security Representative Office of Human Resources, Room 4044 Commodity Futures Trading Commission 1155 21st Street, N.W. Washington, D.C. 20581 H. Completed investigation forms shall be submitted to the CFTC Personnel Security Representative at the address cited above. The Personnel Security Representative will arrange

3

for fingerprinting of candidates and submit completed applications and fingerprints to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) for investigation. I. For Contractor staff as described in paragraph C above, the SAC will serve as a prescreening measure and will meet interim clearance needs. The subject Contractor staff may be allowed to commence work with a favorable finding on the SAC. Continuation of work for CFTC depends upon favorable adjudication by the CFTC Personnel Security Director of the NACI. If required by the contractor staff's work, the agency may require an investigation higher than a NACI after the contractor staff is on board. Any subsequent Investigation must be favorably adjudicated by the CFTC Personnel Security Director in order for the contractor staff to continue to work at CFTC. J. The Contractor shall ensure that its staff maintains valid clearances as necessary while performing work for CFTC under this contract. However, should clearances from another agency expire during the period of performance under the contract, the Contractor shall immediately notify the COTR. The Personnel Security Representative will determine if the Contractor needs to renew its staff's clearance. If so, CFTC may initiate the necessary Checks and Investigations. K. In addition to the security requirements cited above, prior to fingerprinting and upon commencement of work at the Commission, all staff described in paragraphs B and C above must show the Personal Security Representative two forms of original identification. One such identification must be a valid state or federal government issued picture identification; the second must be from the list of acceptable documentation contained in Form I-9 (Revision 05/31/05). Identification verification is required before CFTC will issue a personal identification verification card to the Contractor staff.

4. NON-DISCLOSURE OF CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION (a) As used in this clause, "confidential information" means information obtained during performance of the contract that is private in nature, and which is not meant for public disclosure. Examples of "confidential information" include, but are not limited to, sensitive or proprietary business, technical, financial or personal information belonging to the Government, other companies or individuals. (b) Pursuant to the Commodity Exchange Act, as amended (7 U.S.C.  1, et. seq.), other laws and the terms and conditions of this contract, the contractor agrees to use confidential information only for the purposes of performing work under this contract, and to otherwise hold such information confidential. The contractor shall not directly or indirectly use or allow the use of confidential information for any purpose other than that directly associated with officially assigned duties, and shall not, either by direct action or by counsel, discussion, recommendation, or suggestion to any third party, reveal the nature or content of any confidential information.

4

(c) The contractor shall obtain from each employee permitted access a written agreement, in a form satisfactory to the Contracting Officer, that he/she will not disclose any such confidential information to any third party except those persons within the contractor's organization or the Government directly concerned with the performance of the contract. The completed form shall be furnished to the Contracting Officer prior to each employee beginning work under this contract. (d) If disclosure of confidential information to a third party is determined to be necessary by the Commission, the contractor shall first obtain written authorization from the Contracting Officer prior to disclosing the confidential information. The contractor shall continue to comply with this clause after expiration of this contract.

5. COMPUTER SECURITY The Contractor shall obtain, read, understand, and comply with the policy and procedures of the Commission's computer security program and limited personal use policy prior to being granted access to the internal network. Access to CFTC computer systems is requested and granted only on an as needed basis to perform official CFTC business. Computer systems and hardware may not be modified by the Contractor without express written consent from the COTR. The downloading of computer games and/or their operation is prohibited.

6. USE OF GOVERNMENT PROPERTY Government property [see FAR 45.101(a)] shall be used only for performing work under this contract, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. The contractor shall be responsible and accountable for all Government property provided under the contract. The contractor shall be liable for shortages, loss, damages, or destruction of Government property in its possession or control. The contractor shall investigate and report to the Contracting Officer or the COTR all cases of loss, damage, or destruction of Government property in its possession or control as soon as the facts become known or when requested by the Contracting Officer or the COTR.

7. LIABILITY This clause addresses liability arising beyond that which is specific to Government property. Liability for shortages, loss, damages or destruction of Government property is addressed in the "Use of Government Property" clause of this contract.

5

The contractor shall be responsible for all liabilities which result from willful misconduct, gross negligence, or lack of good faith on the part of any of its officers and employees. Such liability is not restricted by any dollar limitations.

8. COMPLIANCE WITH THE REHABILITATION ACT OF 1973 All electronic and information technology ("EIT") procured through this contract must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended (29 U.S.C. 794d). In the event that the Contractor's work does not meet such standards, and the defect is brought to the Contractor's attention no later than one year after the date of final payment under this contract, the Contractor will be responsible for correcting the work at no cost to the Government.

9. COMMON SECURITY CONFIGURATIONS (a) By entering into this contract, the contractor certifies that all applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC) for Windows XP and Vista. For the Windows XP settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_WinXP.html, and for the Windows Vista settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_vista.html. (b) The standard installation, operation, maintenance, update, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the approved FDCC configuration. The information technology should also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the default "program files" directory and should be able to install and uninstall. (c) The Commodity Futures Trading Commission reserves the right to test all delivered information technology to verify the contractor's certification required in paragraph (a) above. In the event the information technology does not meet the requirements of this clause, and the defect is brought to the Contractor's attention no later than one year after the date of final payment under this contract, the Contractor shall correct the defect at no cost to the Government.

10. GOVERNMENT RIGHTS IN DATA The Government shall have unrestricted rights in all data developed under this contract, as described in FAR Clause 52.227-14, Rights in Data--General (Dec 2007), which is incorporated herein by reference.

6

