Questions & Answers



Q.1.  Technical, point #3 - “Demonstrate ability to work with “turn key”, self-sustaining websites with in-house long-term maintenance where the templates are provided.”  What “turn key” solutions are deployed now, or is NOAA looking for contractor to deploy a “turn key” solution. 

A.1.  NOAA would like the website set up in a way that is easy for us to maintain internally. In other words, we request that the contractor develop template style sheets so that our webmaster can easily plug in information. 

Q.2.  If the goal is “long term”, how long is this contract for?  

A.2.  The contract will continue until NOAA rolls out the strategic plan in summer 2010. A separate contract may be set up with the contractor for additional services.

Q.3.  Section III - Poster  – “This poster will be broadly distributed to NOAA employees and to external stakeholders to publicize NOAA’s new strategy.”  If the poster is to publicize NOAA’s new strategy, where are they going to do this? Trade shows, an outdoor advertising campaign, flyers and leaflets distributed?

A.3.  The poster will fold down into a brochure format and distributed to NOAA employees. In addition, the poster/brochure will be available for handouts at conferences, trade shows, meetings, forums and more.

Q.4.  Section IV – Banner Ups –What is a banner-up? What are the dimensions, what material is it made of, does it need to have specific attachments in order to hang it?

A.4.  NOAA will provide an example (a template of sorts) for the contractor to design the banner up.  Banner ups are vinyl and hang from an existing stand. Dimensions will be provided in the InDesign example.

Q.5. Banner Ups – “a banner depicting the four long-term strategic goals and the NOAA strategy” – If this is a long-term strategy does the NOAA know the themes for this strategy already or does the contract term include further “banner – ups” in 12 months time, 3 years time etc?

A.5.  NA – we will not need additional banner ups. If we determine we need more banner ups, we will produce them inhouse.

Q.6.  Banner Up – “The intent of the banner is to market the strategic goals and the NGSP”.  Where will they be “marketing their specific goals? Trade shows, government events, exhibitions?

A.6.  Yes, at trade shows, conferences, forums, etc.

Q.7.  Section 5 - NGSP and Goal Posters  - What are the dimensions? What will these be made from, cardboard, paper, fabric…..?

A.7.  They will be printed on high-gloss heavy-weight paper.

Q.8.  The intent of the posters is to market the strategic goals and the NGSP. –  Where will they be marketing and using these?

A.8.  In NOAA offices around the country.

Q.9.  Is this refreshing 3 websites or just the NGSP part? This appears to be the only time they refer to the project as “NOAA PPI NGSP.”

A.9.  It is to refresh just one website with several web pages.

Q.10.  Section III – Poster – where will these be used.  It says distributed to employees and such, but will they display them or have them on desks ?  

A.10.  The poster/brochure could “hang” in employee offices/cubes.

Q.11.  Duration of contract, since this is fixed bid, would it be just for the efforts involved for each deliverable?

A.11.  Yes.

Q.12.  Section II - Executive Summary, would NOAA be writing the exec. Summary and the contractor doing the final edits and put in graphics and such?

A.12.  Yes, NOAA will write and be responsible for the content of the summary.

Q.13.  I wanted to ask about any video and/or pod casts to be implemented into the web site. Would the video and/or pod casts be provided by NOAA or other source from that end? Meaning, it would not be part of the scope of the project for the contractor to provide video? 

A.13.  Videos and podcasts will be provided by NOAA and not the contractor.

Q.14.  “Demonstrating expertise in the use of Flash Imagery, Scripting, video, podcasts, etc., that are comparable in scope to this SOW.”  Can you provide us with more specifics on what you are looking for regarding scripting, video, and podcasts?  Are you seeking a tool that enables you to easily display features like podcasts and videos or are you seeking the vendor to create these features?  Also, how do you envision the use of "scripting"? 

A.14.  We want the contractor to provide the tools to display videos and podcasts (provided by NOAA). That said, we also want the website to be creative and include flash elements that would be created by the contractor.

Q.15.  In the summary, you indicated a place of performance.  Does that mean that you are seeking the vendor to complete work on-site?  Will you accept off-site vendors?

A.15.  We are accepting off-site vendors and do not need the work completed on-site. However, there may be a few times when we will request the vendor to come in person to present the materials if they are located near D.C.

Q.16.  Page 3 of the Solicitation, Section I, Refresh the NGSP Website: Can NOAA please clarify if it will be providing videos and podcasts on the website, or if the vendor will be responsible for producing and implementing them onto the site?  

A.16.  NOAA will provide the videos and podcasts.

Q.17.  Page 3, Section I, Refresh the NGSP Website: Can NOAA please provide the expected release date of the final document?  

A.17.  May 2010.

Q.18.  Page 3, Section II, Produce the NGSP Executive Summary: Can NOAA please clarify if vendors will need to place the publication online? If so, will this publication need to be Section 508 compliant?  

A. 18.  Yes, the online version will need to be 508 compliant.

Q.19.  Page 3, Section II, Produce the NGSP Executive Summary: Can NOAA please provide an estimate of the number of tables, charts, graphs, and illustrations that comprise this publication?  

A. 19.  Not at this time.

Q.20.  What is the exact URL of the site that is being refreshed? Is it the  website or is it the entire  website?  

A. 20.  

Q.21.  What programming language do they want the site written in?

A.21.  HTML

Q.22.  Do you want the new refreshed website to be database driven?

A.22.  No, not necessarily.



Q.23.  Do you want flash on every page? Certain pages? Do you want the flash to pull in information dynamically from a database or have the flash pieces be self containing? 



A.23.  We want the flash elements to be self-containing and we would like flash elements on most of the webpages.

Q.24.  What content management system (CMS) is NOAA using on the Web site we will be providing design / content for as part of this contract?



A.24.  Yes, the contractor will design the website.

Q.25.  Do you have an existing CMS(Content Management System) you would want this website to be using?

A.25.  No, we do not have CMS at this time.



Q.26.  In regards to the website portion of this RFQ are you just looking for design templates that the selected vendor would design and then NOAA would do the programming or are you looking for the programming to be produced by the vendor too?



A.26.  We want the contractor to produce the programming.



Q.27.  Please clarify the designated place of performance. Can we assume that this work will be done at the vendors facility and the primary point of contact will be located in Silver Spring, Maryland.

A.27.  The vendor will work from their own facility. The primary POC will be located in Silver Spring and will be available via email and phone.





























