
REQUEST FOR INFORMATION


INTRODUCTION/GENERAL OVERVIEW

The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) is a federal corporation created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA).
It currently protects the pensions of nearly 44 million American workers and retirees in 30,330 private single-employer and multi-employer
defined benefit pension plans. PBGC receives no funds from general tax revenues. Operations are financed by insurance premiums set by Congress
and paid by sponsors of defined benefit plans, investment income, and assets from pension plans trusted by PBGC, and recoveries from the
companies formerly responsible for the plans.

The PBGC Director reports to a Board of Directors consisting of the Secretaries of Labor, Commerce and Treasury, with the Secretary of Labor as
Chairperson. The Corporation is aided by a seven-member Advisory Committee appointed by the President of the United States to represent the
interests of labor, employers, and the general public. ERISA outlines several specific responsibilities for PBGC's Advisory Committee, including
advising on policies and procedures for PBGC's investments, the trusteeship of terminated plans, and on other matters as determined by PBGC.

The goals and objectives of PBGC are described at www.pbgc.gov. PBGC’s Office of Information Technology (OIT), led by the Chief Information
Officer, manages the PBGC’s information technology assets. OIT responsibility includes all IT services.  OIT is presently comprised of 85
federal employees and 400 contractors, of whom approximately 130 are associated with IT infrastructure operations activities.

OIT faces challenges in the areas of aging infrastructure, meeting minimum standards, meeting security and disaster recovery requirements, as
well as meeting systems development, test and validation requirements.  PBGC currently owns and operates the majority of its infrastructure
while contracting for some services as outlined in “Current Environment” below.

The services and/or functions currently conducted by OIT primarily fall into the categories of IT project management, systems and software
operations and maintenance including all corporate database and application support, file/print services, storage/backup and restore services,
wide and local area network and voice/data telecommunications management, as well as support services including a Service Desk, 1st through 3rd
tier application troubleshooting support, application development support, disaster recovery/COOP services and a Network Operations Center
staffed 24x7.

DESIRED OUTCOME

OIT seeks to bring the benefits of the information technology revolution to PBGC and to make it easier for PBGC to exchange information and data
in a way that is secure, easy, efficient, effective, and flexible enough to absorb periods of rapid growth. OIT is working to develop a business
implementation strategy intended to re-define and/or validate its services as part of an effort to transform from a reactionary, applications-
focused IT operations environment to a strategic enterprise approach for IT service delivery. The business strategy will guide transformational
activities for OIT to reach its goal to oversee and/or provide the best information technology services for PBGC. OIT has determined that
“status quo” is not the best option if OIT is to reach its goals.



OIT desires to conduct a multi-phased sourcing project.

      Phase 1 – Discovery and Strategy Development – the Assessment
      Phase 2 – Sourcing RFP Development and Management/Governance Plan Development
      Phase 3 – Transition and Implementation Services

Phase 1 – Discovery and Strategy Development is the first step and consists of an assessment of PBGC’s IT Infrastructure services (but does not
include application sourcing). The assessment will begin with the development of a current “As Is” state including current costs and service
components by the Sourcing Advisor Contractor. Additionally, the contractor will recommend a To-Be state based on options it has considered for
PBGC consideration.

The alternatives developed during Phase 1 must include, due to OMB A-11 Exhibit 300 requirements, a minimum of four (4) alternatives:

1) The status quo strengths and weaknesses

2) The status quo with recommended improvements to existing services to meet OCIO requirements

And at least two other alternatives – one of which must consider other government agencies as providers.

Additionally, alternatives may include.

    • Outsourced services with PBGC ownership and a “managed service” model
    • Full outsourced model

    • Any combination of all of the above

Due to its status as a Federal agency, PBGC requires that the Sourcing Advisor’s alternatives analysis follow Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) direction to consider other federal agencies as potential providers in addition to commercial entities.  For example, PBGC receives the
following services from other federal agencies:

    • Payroll services are provided by the National Business Center, Department of the Interior.
    • Security validation services are provided by Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) Assert application.


OIT has the following objectives related to the Sourcing Assessment project:

    • Ensure all sourcing decisions of OIT IT infrastructure services are in the best interest of PBGC for the long run.
    • Ensure all sourcing decisions and resulting implementations support OIT’s development into a flexible, adaptable service provider  that
      supports a secure, stable infrastructure that is responsive to the business needs of the PBGC community of stakeholders.
    • Develop an appropriate governance structure, based on industry best practices, that will support the sourcing alternative selected.

Decisions made during Phase 1 of the project will guide the remaining phases of the project.

Phase 2 – Sourcing RFP Development and Management/Governance Plan Development – if the sourcing assessment alternative selected by OIT for its
IT Infrastructure Services is anything other than the status quo, Phase 2 will require the Sourcing Advisor Contractor to participate in the
development of one or more RFP(s) for implementation. The implementation procurement(s) will be “best value" procurement(s). The development of
the RFP(s) will include meetings and work sessions with the OIT Assessment Team members, legal representatives, contracting officers, federal
acquisition policy experts, and subject matter experts as needed on each section of the RFP. This activity will collect all business
requirements for the IT Infrastructure Services to include legal and Federal government requirements (i.e., Federal Acquisition Regulation and
applicable security regulations). In addition, the sourcing advisor contractor will design and develop an optimum sourcing management strategy
and a governance structure for OIT that matches the desired end state of OIT's transformation and the sourcing decisions and ESP selection.

Phase 3 –Transition and Implementation Phase.  The implementation contractor will provide the final transition and implementation timeline and
approach based upon the sourcing advisor’s analysis of OIT's transformation plans and sourcing decisions. The sourcing advisor contractor will
provide assistance and support in the transition and implementation activities.

OIT’s estimated transformation timeline for the work is as follows:

|Phase 1—                                                                  |Initiated February 2009                          |
|Strategy Development and Discovery activities                             |Completed June 2009                              |
|Phase 2—                                                                  |                                                 |
|Sourcing RFP Development and Management/Governance Plan Development       |                                                 |
|activities                                                                |                                                 |
|– RFP(s) written and posted                                               |Completed September 2009                         |
|– Sourcing management strategy and governance                             |Completed December 2009                          |
|Phase 3—                                                                  |Initiated 2nd quarter FY 2010                    |
|Transition and Implementation activities                                  |Completed 3rd quarter FY 2010                    |


Please Note: the Federal Acquisition Regulations (FAR) requires that companies submitting proposals in response to a government RFP also submit
a Small Business Subcontracting Plan.  If you are not familiar with this requirement please see FAR 52.219-9.

CURRENT ENVIRONMENT

PBGC’s IT Program adheres to legislative requirements and administrative mandates, and follows guidance and best practices recommended by the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the Government Accountability Office (GAO), National Institute for Standards and Technology (NIST), and
the Federal CIO Council.

 • The PBGC staff consists of approximately 835 federal employees and 1,350 contract employees.  Approximately 1,785 staff members work at the
   agency's primary facility at 1200 K Street, N.W., in Washington, D.C., in satellite offices nearby (1275 K Street and 1225 I Street) or in
   Kingstowne, VA.

      o Approximately 400 contract employees work in 10 Field Benefit Administration (FBA) offices located throughout the United States.  FBAs
        are contractor-run operations that support the PBGC in its role as trustee for terminated pension plans and in performing benefits
        administration for the majority of the PBGC's participants. Several FBA contractors have information technology positions that perform
        additional duties such as assessing connectivity problems; diagnosing, repairing and replacing desktop equipment; and providing
        technical assistance for hardware and software problems and issues.

      o PBGC’s paying agent is State Street Corporation, a commercial bank in Boston.

      o PBGC is supported by a number of actuarial consultants with two offices in Washington, DC; one office in Vienna, VA; one office in
        Reston, VA and one office in Cleveland, OH.  These consultants provide their own IT Support.

      o PBGC is supported by a separate contractor that provides mass mailing services from the Fulfillment House located in Fredericksburg, VA.



      o PBGC is also supported by a separate contractor responsible for Infrastructure Operations and Maintenance Services (O&M)

      o The organization of PBGC can be found at http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/org_chart.pdf.  Further information for each department can be found
        at http://www.pbgc.gov/workers-retirees/about-pbgc/content/page14552.html.

 • Internet connectivity is provided, through the STARS contract, by Yipes OC-3 links at the HQ and Wilmington Continuity of Operations (COOP)
   facilities.  PBGC operates public-facing web servers and also remote access facilities at both of these locations.  Applied Data provides dark
   fiber between 1200 K Street and 1275 K Street through a direct contract.

 • The PBGC WAN consists primarily of point-to-point circuits. FBA and Actuarial sites use Sprint or MPLS nxT1 circuits to connect to the HQ and
   Wilmington sites via incoming T3s at those sites. There is an OC-12 link between HQ and Wilmington, and an OC-3 between Wilmington and
   Kingstowne, both provided by Yipes Inc. A Verizon Transparent LAN Service (TLS) link at 100Mbit/sec connects Kingstowne to HQ, in addition to
   local calling services, all under the Washington Interagency Telecommunications Services (WITS) contract.  Sprint also provides WAN router
   management and 800 number toll free service.  Sprint services are provided under the FTS 2001 contract.

 • The Kingstowne site, which for normal operations houses the Contact Center and the Benefit and Payment Department (BAPD) Document Management
   Center, has normal staffing of about 150 personnel. In the event of a COOP event, the location becomes the Emergency Relocation Site for
   critical headquarters staff.

 • PBGC maintains logically separate network environments for development, testing, production and continuity of operations. These environments
   will be used by the PICS contractor. The Software Engineering Services contractor will not have access to the production environment.

     o The Common Development Environment (CDE) provides an area for development and interoperability testing that is isolated from production
       and other environments. The CDE provides the capability to develop major applications, which support PBGC’s changing business needs. The
       environment allows PBGC to take advantage of emerging technologies and to improve the exchange of data with internal and external
       customers. The CDE is currently comprised of two separate areas (CDE-T and CDE-I);

     o The CDE-T is the “Team-Specific” area, used for code development, COTS configuration and unit testing of development efforts.

     o The CDE-I is the “Interoperability” area, used for various phases of testing (functional, system, integration, performance, and
       deployment) of future integrated releases. The CDE-I is further broken down into two sub-areas – “As Is” and “To Be.”

        o The “As Is” area reflects the current production environment and is used for testing against applications that currently exist in
          production. This area may be used for supporting production, emergency fixes, and point releases. Currently this area also serves as
          the training environment for custom developed applications.

        o The “To Be” area reflects the future production environment and is used for testing against the applications that will be deployed in
          the next major software release.

 • The Integration and Testing Center (ITC) environment is similar to the production environment, where major release testing and deployment
   occurs. The Integration and Testing Center tested applications currently are deployed by an ITC staff independent from other Federal and
   contract development teams. The ITC maintains hardware and software similar to the production environment so that testing will effectively
   demonstrate a repeatable deployment process that will work for production deployment.

 • The production environment (PROD) provides support to business operations including replication of software and data to the COOP site with
   similar hardware. The production environment includes a sub-environment for the Training Center. The training sub-environment provides part of
   a representation of the production environment (e.g., applications and databases) and firewalls to prevent activity performed in the sub-
   environment from interfacing with the production environment.

 • The COOP environment provides redundancy for the production environment and facilitates the continuation of business activities in the event
   of a disruption to the production environment. Failover is to PBGC’s servers at Wilmington, DE, which has similar cache boxes and web switches
   with server health monitoring and failover.

 • PBGC maintains Storage Area Networks (SANs) to provide high volume file and data storage. The SAN includes a multitude of components such as
   racks, hard drives, array controllers, switches, shelves, fiber and/or SCSI cables, power, power distribution units (PDU), and host bus
   adapters. These components comprise the physical structure of the SAN to provide access to the data.

 • PBGC server operating systems include Windows, Solaris, UNIX, Linux, VMware and Netware. Netware servers are being phased out of the
   environment.  PBGC’s server and workstation inventory is distributed throughout the production, CDE, ITC and COOP environments and is
   comprised as follows:  13 Unix servers hosting corporate databases; 58 Solaris servers hosting corporate applications;  104 Linux servers
   hosting corporate applications; 236 Wintel servers hosting file, print and other users or application services; 180 virtual Wintel servers
   supporting development and application services; 2687 physical workstations and 68 virtual workstations.

 • PBGC uses Oracle (currently 10g) as the standard database (currently 10g). PBGC also maintains MS SQL databases.

 • PBGC uses Oracle  (currently AS 10g) as the standard application server. PBGC also maintains a FileNet technology stack.

 • JAVA is the development language of choice.  Some .Net and other apps are also maintained.  Web-based thin client W3C compliant browser based
   n-tier apps are the standard.  Oracle APEX is the recommended IDE where appropriate.

 • OIT supports PBGC business functions through a number of core business applications, both custom and commercial-off-the-shelf (COTS), and
   numerous supporting applications (word processing, spreadsheet, graphics, email, browser, portal and other software), communications
   connectivity, and a set of hardware and software platforms (such as Oracle database, middle tier and database servers, desktop workstations,
   and portable devices).

 • Core business applications presently use a mix of Web-based thin client W3C compliant browser based n-tier apps, client/server and service-
   based architectures. Several of these applications are electronic-mail enabled. All current EA-compliant development is service-oriented with
   browser-based user interfaces. COTS and custom software applications are deployed from servers using Altiris.

 • PBGC network uses Oracle OID/SSO Microsoft's Active Directory Service for Windows 200, Microsoft Exchange 2003 for email with Ironport and
   Brightmail SPAM filtering, Microsoft XP SP2 workstations with Symantec Anti-Virus, and Blackberry portable devices. The network includes
   “lettered” drives that support administrative uses and personal file and data storage and retrieval.  PBGC is in the process of upgrading to
   Microsft Exchange 2007 and expects to complete the upgrade by April of 2009.

 • PBGC supports secure remote access to PBGC's networked resources through Tarantella, dialup and Windows Terminal Services servers from JAVA
   enabled desktops with access to the Internet.

 • PBGC provides Internet email capability for end users through its internal mail system, and access to the World Wide Web via Sprintlink with
   MS Internet Explorer at the desktop. PBGC maintains a web site (http://www.pbgc.gov) that is available to the general public via the Internet.
   PBGC also maintains an Intranet and a Portal.

 • PBGC's equipment for personal computing consists of Intel and AMD workstations, laptop computers, Macintosh workstations, network printers,
   non-networked printers, and other peripherals. The AMD and Intel-based personal computers (PCs) use Windows XP SP2 as their primary operating
   systems. PBGC uses the Microsoft Office 2003 Suite of applications as the primary set of desktop tools. PBGC is in the process of upgrading to
   the Microsoft Office 2007 suite and expects to complete the upgrade by April of 2009.  In addition, other business units utilize WordPerfect,
   Lotus spreadsheet and Lotus Notes. The PCs are used to run COTS software and PBGC custom-built applications.

 • PBGC utilizes Polytron Version Control System (PVCS) as a code and controlled documentation repository for tracking changes; managing
   migration of software among environments; and organizing, managing and protecting software assets across distributed development teams.

 • PBGC utilizes HP OpenView (Peregrine) Service Center for incident, problem, change and configuration management.

 • PBGC uses HP (Peregrine) Asset Center and Novell ZenWorks Asset Management to provide IT asset management capability.

 • PBGC uses Primavera project and portfolio management system as a central repository for tracking and reporting project data. EA information is
   in the custom developed EA Repository (EAR).

 • PBGC maintains a Microsoft Enterprise Agreement with features that include software licensing, access to Microsoft Developer Network (MSDN),
   on-line support with Microsoft technicians; Microsoft certified training opportunities, access to high priority technical support, HotFix,
   error reporting and other capabilities. PBGC has also entered into enterprise agreements for a number of other key COTS products.

 • Storage/backup and restore—PBGC SAN environment provides support for its production and test environments. The SUN 9980 SAN provides the
   agency with production access to electronic mail (via Microsoft Exchange 2003), home, application and shared drive access (Microsoft file
   system), and database access (via Microsoft SQL and Oracle). The network file systems that connect to the 9980s include Unix, Linux and
   Microsoft 2003. The 9980 SAN replicates production data to the COOP site in Wilmington to another 9980 SAN. There are approximately 130
   terabytes of raw storage space available across all environments.

 • The test environments provide solution implementers an area to develop code and test applications prior to an application deployment to the
   production SAN. The Common Development Environment (CDE) and Integration Testing Center (ITC) has a set of SANs that provide testing and code
   development. The CDE utilizes 2 Sun Microsystems 6130 SANs and the ITC utilizes 3 Sun Microsystems 6320 SANs.

 • Snapshots and Replication—The StoreEdge 9980 contains local snapshots of the Windows based solutions. The snapshots include 2 copies of
   Exchange 2003 data in headquarters and one copy of the file services data. The Exchange snapshots are replicated every 24 hours alternating
   between the 1st and 2nd snapshots. TrueCopy is the application used to asynchronously replicate the Exchange data on a dedicated (QOS’d) 400MB
   OC-12 link. The file services (home, share and SQL) are synchronously replicated to Wilmington while maintaining a local snapshot of these
   services. The Oracle databases on the SUN servers are replicated each night using Data Guard.

 • Corporate (HQ) Backup Systems—The main PBGC backup systems are located at the Corporate office in Washington, DC. This location is commonly
   called HQ or HQW.

      o Software: HQ uses Symantec (formerly Veritas) NetBackup 6.0 Enterprise backup software running on Windows 2003 servers with three
        robotic tape systems.

         • There is one Windows 2003 NetBackup master server.

         • There are three Windows 2003 NetBackup media servers.

      o Hardware:  HQ has two tape libraries and a tape library emulator. The emulator uses hard drives as "tape" cartridges, providing
        significant performance improvement for backups and for file restores.

        The robots and media servers are interconnected with a small Storage Area Network (SAN). The NetBackup Shared Storage option allows any
        media server to work with any robot or drive.

        There are two Quantum M-2500 tape libraries with six Super DLT 1 drives and 63 slots.

         • There is one Quantum DX-5000 tape emulator with six tape drives. "Tapes" made on this system are copied to physical tapes during the
           day.

         • The Shared Storage Option allows all robotic devices to work with any media server.

 • Remote Site Backups: A number of remote offices have their own backup systems using NetBackup Server 6.0.  Several smaller sites are supported
   directly from HQ.

      o FBA Sites: Field Benefit Administrator (FBA) sites provide support for pensioners in a number of localities. The FBA sites have
        NetBackup Server installed on their file / print servers.  Larger FBA sites also have a domain controller to facilitate logging in to
        the network.

      o Kingstowne Hot site: The Kingstowne tele-work site is located in Alexandria, VA.  Kingstowne was once configured similarly to the FBA
        sites; however, it is currently operated with servers at HQ. The legacy backup histories are stored on the SAN at HQ.

      o Wilmington COOP site: The Wilmington FBA site also serves as a Continuity of Operations (COOP) site.  In the event the Washington DC
        area becomes unavailable, operations would be shifted to the COOP site. Wilmington has a full-sized backup system featuring a Quantum M-
        2500 robot with six drives and 63 slots. Backups of the FBA servers are run regularly.

      o COOP Backups: Backups of the COOP servers are not run at present.  These servers contain data replicated from HQ.

 • Remote Offices (WAN Sites): Two remote offices are supported from HQ, with weekly full backups run over-the-wire from HQ. These sites do not
   have PBGC staff available to change tapes or work with backup equipment.

      o Fredericksburg      -- Actuary site, south of Washington

      o Quincy   -- The State Street Bank in Quincy, MA, near Boston.

CONSTRAINTS

Compliance with Enterprise Architecture (EA)
The Contractor shall adhere to and comply with the PBGC Enterprise Architecture (EA). The Contractor shall support and comply with the standards
and technologies of the PBGC target architecture as described in the PBGC Enterprise Architecture Blueprint. A copy of the latest EA Blueprint
and other related documents can be obtained at www.pbgc.gov website under Procurement Opportunities.

Compliance with OMB Circular A-11
To become familiar with OMB Circular A-11 Exhibit 300 requirements, please see http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/


PROJECTED DELIVERABLES

|Activities                                     |Documents/Deliverables                                                       |
|Phase 1 – Discovery and Strategy Development                                                                                 |
|A description of your Methodology and tools to |Methodology; data gathering strategy; Detailed list and description of data  |
|capture an accurate description of OIT’s “As   |elements to be collected; Information/data gathering tools/process           |
|Is” IT infrastructure services.                |                                                                             |
|Your methodology for assessing how well OIT    |Methodology; data gathering strategy; Detailed list and description of data  |
|manages and operates its IT infrastructure     |elements to be collected; Information/data gathering tools/process           |
|(Operational Assessment).                      |                                                                             |
|The “As Is” Assessment for OIT                 |Interim status reports; draft report; final report; OMB 300 input            |
|Operational Assessment for OIT                 |Interim status reports; draft report; final report; OMB 300 input            |
|Analyze OIT’s IT Infrastructure Service        |Alternatives with supporting detail analysis; criteria to meet minimum       |
|                                               |industry standards; comparison to as is; OMB 300 input                       |
|Provide data to and support creation of OMB    |Alternatives and recommended sourcing options for IT infrastructure services |
|Exhibit 300                                    |in compliance with Federal agency requirements                               |
|Transition and implementation timeline and     |Draft plan; revised drafts; final plan; Timeline and project schedule in     |
|approach                                       |Primavera                                                                    |
|Working meetings, input on RFP and scope       |Active participation in meetings; documents as determined such as performance|
|requirements, SLAs, pricing methodology;       |standards/SLAs, evaluation criteria; supporting documents for the            |
|creating appendices; evaluation recommendations|procurement(s)                                                               |
|Support Plan for the contract negotiation      |Including, without limitation, identifying and developing a pre-negotiation  |
|activities                                     |strategy. Identify options and likely scenarios for the due diligence        |
|                                               |activities. Training for OCOI staff as needed and materials                  |
|Expert advice to technical evaluation team     |Meeting participation, as needed                                             |
|Develop management/governance plan for PBGC OIT|Draft report and recommendations; final based on government input; governance|
|to manage and monitor the Infrastructure       |strategy, design processes, roles and responsibilities, staffing and skills  |
|environment and ESP                            |requirements; change management plan for implementing the new governance     |
|                                               |structure, including communications plans for stakeholders                   |
|Transition and implementation timeline –draft 2|Revised timeline and project schedule in Primavera                           |
|Advice and counsel during transition to        |Change management/governance plan; SLA oversight and support; negotiations   |
|implement OIT’s final sourcing plan            |assistance and recommendations                                               |
|Transition and implementation timeline         |Revised timeline and project schedule in Primavera                           |
|revisions based on winning Implementation      |                                                                             |
|Contractor’s solution – draft 3                |                                                                             |


INSTRUCTIONS

Firms interested in collaborating with the PBGC on this project are requested to submit an expression of their interest in a brief capability
statement, which demonstrates your core competencies and performance expertise and experience in performing sourcing assessments of similar or
greater scope than that contemplated by PBGC.  You are to address the following questions at the end of your capability statement:

1) How many years of experience does the Respondent have, acting as a prime contractor, conducting baseline  (“As Is”) development and sourcing
assessment analysis for large scale enterprise IT  sourcing projects that include infrastructure elements corporate database and application
support, file/print services, storage/backup and restore services, wide and local area network and voice/data telecommunications management, as
well as support services including a Service Desk, 1st through 3rd tier application troubleshooting support, application development support,
disaster recovery/COOP services and a network operations or data center.

2) How many engagements has the Respondent performed, as a prime contractor, in the development of sourcing procurement documents and
evaluations for large scale enterprise IT Infrastructure sourcing?

3) How many engagements has the Respondent performed, as a prime contractor, where Respondent conducted “As Is”/benchmark information gathering
and sourcing assessment analysis and then used the results of that assessment to assist its customer in a procurement for IT Infrastructure
sourcing?

4) How many engagements has Respondent performed, as a prime contractor, developing governance models for large scale enterprise IT
Infrastructure sourcing organizations?

5) How many engagements has Respondent performed – where the customer successfully implemented your recommendation to completion?  – where the
customer has begun implementation?  Please explain.

6) How many engagements has Respondent performed where your recommendation was other than a fully outsourced model?  Please explain.

7) In order to understand your company’s business size, please provide the total gross revenues of the parent organization to include all/any
organizations that are governed by the same board of directors.

Responses are limited to a total of five (5) pages to include your responses to the above questions.

Responses to this Request for Information (RFI) are to be submitted in Word and electronically by email to Fiorela Kvalevog,
kvalevog.fiorela@pbgc.gov and are due on or before 3:00 pm EST on Thursday, November 20, 2008.

The PBGC will issue advisory notifications, on or about Monday November 24, stating that the respondents will either be invited to participate
in due diligence conversation sessions, or based on the information submitted, the respondent is unlikely to be a viable competitor as explained
in FAR 15.202(b) Advisory Multi-Step process.

Even though the PBGC is not seeking formal proposals, the technical responses to the RFI must address the PBGC’s requirements in sufficient
detail to allow them to be reviewed for technical merit.

The RFI is not an RFP, may be canceled at any time, and may not result in the issuance of an RFP or award of a contract.

