
OVERVIEW - The U. S. Railroad Retirement Board (“RRB”) is an independent Federal agency that administers a retirement and survivor benefits
program for railroad employees and their families.  The RRB was established by the Railroad Retirement Acts of 1937 and 1974.  Its benefits
program was the forerunner of the more familiar Social Security System.  The Railroad Retirement System is unique inasmuch as it is the only
federally administered benefits program covering a single private industry.  The RRB also administers the Railroad Unemployment Insurance Act,
which provides unemployment and sickness benefits to railroad employees.  The RRB’s headquarters is located in Chicago, Illinois.  Background -
The RRB currently has an EMC2 Clarion CX4-120 open systems storage system with two partially populated drawers (DAEs). This system is populated
with approximately 6 TBs storage capacity on SATA drives and 4 TBs of storage capacity on Fiber Channel (FC) drives.  Space is available in the
FC DAE for three additional .3 terabyte (TB) drives and in the SATA DAE for nine additional 1TB drives.  The RRB’s EMC2 Clarion CX4-120 is
currently under EMC2 maintenance coverage and the last option period end date for the services is November 3, 2011.  – Objective - The RRB’s
objective is to procure the added storage from EMC2 partners as offers made under the terms of each offeror’s GSA Schedule 70 Contract or one of
their Government Wide Acquisition Contracts (GWACs). The RRB desires to add a minimum of 53.4 TB of physical storage to the RRB’s existing EMC2
Clarion CX4-120 open systems storage system.  See Attachment 4 for an illustration of the current and envisioned future states of the RRB’s
Clarion storage system.  PRICE SCHEDULE - The offeror shall provide a “fully loaded” firm-fixed price to furnish, install, configure, test, and
provide consulting and training (CLINs001-002) for their proposed open systems storage solution.  (Basic and Optional) The RRB defines “fully
loaded” as the price inclusive of direct wages, fringe benefits, all overheads, general and administrative (G&A) costs, profit and fees, and all
travel and per diem costs for the contractor’s employees to perform the required services at the RRB headquarters facility, located in Chicago,
Illinois.  The offeror shall also enter an annual maintenance/support price (Basic and Optional) for the period of performance effective with
the RRB acceptance of the contractor’s solution through November 3, 2011 resulting in coterminous maintenance coverage with the existing Clarion
Storage System and its currently installed drives (as described in Section I - the Background paragraph).  * The contractor’s price offering for
this option (CLIN 001B) shall be valid for at least six months from the date of award.  - STATEMENT OF WORK A.   The contractor shall provide,
install, and configure equipment, software, peripherals, and other components, that meet all of the following requirements:  The offered
equipment shall be compatible with and shall fully integrate into the RRB’s existing EMC2 Clarion CX4-120 and the RRB’s information systems
operating environment, (see Attachment 1).  2.  The proposed solution shall add a minimum of 53.4 TB of storage upon installation.  This minimum
of 53.4 TB of additional physical storage capacity shall be comprised of approximately 1/3 15,000 RPM FC drives and approximately 2/3 7,200 RPM
SATA drives.  The RRB prefers that not more than four DAEs in addition to the two currently in use be populated in order to add the required
minimum of 53.4 TB of physical storage.  See the RRB envisioned (target) future/end state as illustrated on Attachment 4 for RRB sought use of
the minimum required total physical storage for the Clarion system.  3.   The contractor shall provide and install XBR-000141 4GB Brocade small
form-factor pluggable (SFP) eight-pack modules to the existing Brocade switch. These modules shall provide 32 ports to connect the provided and
installed storage drives to the brocade switch.  The Contractor shall also provide the cables needed to connect the drives to the modules. RRB
staff will install and configure the modules as necessary.  3. The contractor shall provide and install all storage media and all other
necessary equipment (including but not being limited to cables, cable connectors, connections, and modules) required to connect the offered
solution to the RRB’s current IT system environment equipment.  The installation schedule shall not disrupt on-going RRB IT systems operations
and shall be mutually agreed upon with the RRB.  4.The Contractor shall supply a storage system solution that is capable to have disk drives and
other components replaced, microcode updated, and feature capacity upgrades performed without any interruption of system/user access to the data
on the current installed 10TBs of disk drives on the Clarion.  5. The Contractor shall ensure that the installation of the added storage to the
Clarion CX4-120 shall be performed by a contractor and personnel duly authorized and certified by EMC2 to perform such installation and
maintenance.  The Contractor shall provide that the equipment and installation is certified for maintenance coverage by EMC2 prior to the RRB’s
acceptance.  6. The provided equipment shall be new or shall be accompanied by a certificate of maintainability from the original equipment
manufacturer.  The equipment offered shall be in current production.  B. As an option, and upon exercise, the RRB requires the contractor to
provide and install, at a minimum, 6.75 TB of 15,000 RPM FC drives, as well as any accompanying peripherals, cables, connectors, modules, or
other equipment in the existing EMC Clarion CX4-120 in accordance with the requirements of solicitation section III.A.  C. The contractor shall
provide the following services:  1. The contractor shall provide the RRB pre-installation assistance in developing an implementation plan, which
shall not disrupt RRB operations.  2.  The contractor shall provide a technical overview of LUN layout that ensures and demonstrates that they
will follow EMC2’s best practices.  3.  The contractor shall provide on-site training/knowledge transfer for two RRB Network/LAN engineers to
become capable of performing all necessary functions for successful system operation of the installed open systems storage solution in the RRB’s
environment.  4.  The contractor shall make their key project staff available to attend a project initiation meeting, within five days of award,
The RRB and Contractor project staff will discuss plans and details about the Storage Solution installation.  This discussion can be held via
teleconference or on-site at the RRB’s headquarters location at no additional cost to the RRB. The Contractor shall begin other project work at
a mutually agreed upon date thereafter.  Contractor delivery and installation (which does not impact operation of and user access to the RRB’s
network) shall be scheduled and conducted Monday thru Friday, excluding Federal holidays between 8:00 am and 5:00 pm Central time.  D.
Maintenance/Support Services - The Contractor shall provide maintenance on the installed storage solution as a conterminous maintenance period,
24x7 warranty and service on the entire solution, including all proposed hardware and software.  Four-hour restoration time is required after
the Contractor receives a malfunction notification from the RRB for the entire warranty period post award. The Contractor shall provide
documentation of its standard warranty provisions, the price of which is included in the purchase price of the proposed solution open systems
storage devices.  Preventive maintenance shall be scheduled at mutually agreed-upon times.  RRB will be assigning in-house technical and
functional personnel to this project to assist in answering questions, conveying an understanding of the RRB’s EMC2 Clarion environment, and
other information to promote the stated project as necessary.  The RRB will provide workspace(s), telephone(s) for local and toll-free calls,
and basic office equipment for contractor’s staff use when on-site at RRB headquarters.  The RRB will not provide PCs or PC software.  The RRB
shall provide the necessary system access for implementation, testing, and evaluation purposes.  The contractor shall be responsible for
obtaining any and all necessary licenses, permits and/or authorizations and shall comply with all local codes and ordinances required for
performance of this contract without additional cost to RRB.  Under Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 794d), acquisitions
of Electronics and Information Technology (EIT) supplies and services shall meet the accessibility standards as set forth in Attachment 2 to
this solicitation.  Offerors shall complete the certificate at Attachment 2 and certify which accessibility standards the offered EIT products
and/or services meet.  The contractor’s employee(s) shall successfully pass the necessary background/security checks.  Contractor personnel
assigned to support the RRB shall be subjected to suitability screening and background investigation, in accordance with Federal regulations.
Background investigation shall include, at a minimum, checking criminal court records and verifying social security number, credit, employment,
education records, and reports to determine suitability for employment.  Contractor personnel engaged in this contract shall receive computer
security awareness training (of approximately 1 hour or less) in accordance with the Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of
2002.  The selected contractor shall comply with the RRB’s system security requirements for personnel and equipment requiring access to the RRB
computer network.  For network access, all contractor employees shall sign form G-455 (Computer Access Authorization Request), read the G-15
(Information Systems Security Awareness Training for the RRB), sign G-15a (Employee Acknowledgment Statement for the Information Resources
Security Program for the RRB), complete and sign the SF-85p (Questionnaire for Public Trust Positions).  For personnel having access to
annuitant/beneficiary/claimant information, the individuals shall meet with the RRB’s privacy official for a brief training session.  All
network-connected computers must have antivirus software with the current virus definition file(s) installed.   Sensitive Attachments  -
Attachments 1 and 4 provide information on the RRB’s IT Infrastructure which contain sensitive but unclassified information or Privacy Act Data.
For security reasons, these documents shall be provided to you upon request.  Your request must be on your company’s letterhead.  This
attachment will not be submitted with this solicitation document.  Any unauthorized review, use, disclosure or distribution of this attachment
is prohibited. All inquiries shall identify the solicitation number and be addressed and/or faxed, (312/751-4923) to:  U.S. Railroad Retirement
Board, Ms. Velinda Nix, Acquisition Management, 844 North Rush Street, Chicago, IL  60611    All electronic proposals shall be submitted to
PROPOSALS@RRB.GOV, Acquisition Management - Procurement or faxed to 312/751-4923.  RRB will accept electronically submitted proposals.  If the
offeror elects electronic commerce for submission of its proposal, only one hard copy of the entire proposal package must be submitted by the
time and date specified in the solicitation to U.S. Railroad Retirement Board, 844 North Rush Street, Acquisition Management-Procurement,
Chicago, Illinois  60611.  The agency will accept Word or PDF documents, via disk or email.  Electronic submissions shall be sent to
proposals@rrb.gov.  An electronically delivered proposal not received by the time and date specified in this solicitation (See Section VII.)
shall be handled in accordance with FAR 52.212-1(f), “Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offerors”.  The Offeror
shall submit two (2) signed copies of Standard Form (SF-1449) with Blocks 12, 17a. and b., and 30a., b.,  and c. completed.  2. The offeror
shall complete Section II – The Price Schedule with prices for all CLINs.  All pricing information quoted shall be fully loaded rates, including
all appropriate travel and miscellaneous expenses.  3. Other information the contractor determines appropriate and relevant to the evaluation
team.  C.  1. The technical proposal shall include a very specific description of the goods and services being offered in sufficient detail to
evaluate compliance with the mandatory requirements and the evaluated technical factors of the solicitation.  2. The offeror shall provide
complete and detailed technical information to facilitate scoring of the following two evaluated technical factors.  The offeror shall submit a
detailed project plan and events timeline with their proposal.  The project plan shall include a detailed narrative outlining the required
functionalities and activities, a projected timeline/milestone chart, corresponding staff assignments, work steps involved in completing the
entire project described in Section III.  The offeror shall also submit proposed RRB acceptance procedures.  2)  A complete explanation
including narrative, diagrams, charts, etc. that communicates how the proposed solution provides the RRB requirements in Section III as well as
the following RRB desired technical capabilities or functionalities:  a)The offeror shall place special emphasis on how they will perform the
installation, testing, and configuration of the proposed equipment without any disruption to ongoing RRB information processing operations.  b)
The offerors shall explain any technical characteristics they provide that would be advantageous to the RRB.  This could include (but not
necessarily be limited to) such things as hardware/software advantages, high capacity hardware components, efficient combinations of drives and
DAEs, additional technical resources available through a corporate support structure or from another source, tools or approaches that would
enable them to understand the RRB’s data processing situation in greater depth, etc.  c) The offeror shall also provide a detailed parts list
and diagram showing the physical configuration of the proposed end-state storage system solution for both the basic (CLIN 001A) and optional
(CLIN 001B) storage solution capacities.  b. All offerors shall submit information on previously performed contracts that are similar to this
statement of work.  They should involve the installation and configuration of EMC2 open systems storage systems in environments similar to the
RRB’s (as described in Attachment 1).  Information shall be provided on either, 1) all such contracts within the past three years, or 2) the
last three contracts performed, whichever is fewer and shall include the names and addresses of the organization and at least two contact
individuals and their direct phone numbers at each organization.  Offerors shall also submit a detailed description of the projects to be
referenced including, but not being limited to, the nature of the open systems system installed.  3.  The contractor shall describe and list all
resources, equipment, software, and tools the contractor requires RRB to provide and/or being furnished.  The offeror shall state the size of
their staff and their space and equipment needs.  If any tools are to be installed on RRB equipment (as opposed to contractor PCs), the offeror
shall provide a description of the environment and support needed from the RRB to accomplish this.  VI.    The RRB will award a contract
resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be most advantageous to the RRB,
price and other factors considered. Proposals will be evaluated using the following criteria in descending order of importance:
Implementation/installation/upgrade project plan and technical approach (55 possible points, 55% of the total technical points available)
Information on this element should have been submitted per Section IV.C.2.a.  The RRB will evaluate the detailed project plan and events
timeline.  The RRB will evaluate the offeror’s approach to avoiding disruption during implementation.  The RRB will evaluate any technical
characteristics the offeror provides that would be advantageous to the RRB.  b.Past performance (45 possible points, 45% of the total technical
points available)  Information on this element should have been submitted per Section IV.C.2.b.  The RRB will evaluate past performance elements
of direct relevance of the reference, overall customer satisfaction, quality of service, and reliability, contract compliance, and timeliness of
performance.  Offerors will be evaluated on a technical to price ratio of 1:1.  Award will be made on a best value basis as outlined above and
following the procedures in the FAR subpart 8.404.  Attachments - RRB Information Systems Technical Overview, Notification of Personal Identity
Verification Requirements, Certification of Accessibility for Electronics and Information Technology – Section 508, RRB Current and Target
Storage Capacity and Usage States




                                            NOTIFICATION OF PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION REQUIREMENTS


Background

Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (HSPD-12), Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors,
established a policy for all Federal agencies to create and use a government-wide secure and reliable form of identification for their Federal
employees and contractors. This policy is intended to ensure a more complete, reliable, and trusted identification of individuals and for
controlling the access of Federal employees and contractors to Federal physical facilities and information systems.

This notification is issued to applicants for employee and certain contractor positions with the Railroad Retirement Board (RRB) to describe the
personal identity verification policies of this agency.


Applicant Identification Responsibilities

As an applicant for a position as an employee or contractor with the RRB, you are required to do the following in order to complete your
application process:
    • Appear in person before the appropriate RRB official and present two forms of identity source documents to prove your claimed identity.
      The identity source documents must be in original form and come from the list of acceptable documents shown below. At least one document
      shall be a valid State or Federal government issued picture identification (ID).
    • Complete and bring with you the enclosed Standard Form (SF) 85, OPM Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions, or an equivalent form to
      provide the required background information; so that a background check can be completed, unless one was previously done, remains on file,
      and can be referenced. (For additional copies of this form go to http://www.opm.gov/forms.)
    • Submit to having your picture and fingerprints taken.

Once a background check has been completed, and no derogatory information is developed, you will be required to:
    • Appear in person to the authorized RRB official to collect your PIV (Personal Identity Verification) Card. At that time, you will again be
      required to present a state or Federal government picture identity source document to verify that you are the same individual as the one
      who applied for the employee or contractor position and submitted the identity information required under this policy.
    • Accept the PIV Card by signing for the card and acknowledging the related responsibilities.


Responsibilities of Holding a PIV Card

When you are issued a PIV Card, you have the following responsibilities regarding its care and protection. You will be asked to sign a statement
acknowledging your responsibilities. Some of the important responsibilities are:


    • You are required to protect your PIV Card from loss or theft. However, in the event that your card is lost or stolen, you must report the
      loss within 24 hours of noting its disappearance.
    • You agree that you will not attempt to clone, modify, or obtain data from any PIV Card.
    • You agree that you will not assist others in gaining unauthorized access to Federal facilities or information.


Protection of Applicant Information

The following information provided by you will be used as part of the process of identity proofing, registration/enrollment, conducting a
background investigation, and issuance of a PIV Card:
    • Applicant’s full name;
    • Date and place of birth;
    • Identity source documents; and
    • Other relevant information useful for proving the claimed identity of the applicant.

This information will be stored in secure electronic media or in locked files. Access to the records is limited to those individuals who have a
need to know the information in order to perform official functions under the PIV issuance process.


Notification of Results of Identity Proofing

If, as a result of the identity proofing process, you are deemed ineligible to be appointed to the position for which you applied and to be
issued an official RRB identity document, you will be notified in writing of the identity proofing results. You will also be notified at that
time of any additional rights you have under the RRB’s identity proofing processes.


Rights If PIV Card Is Not Approved for You

If you are denied a PIV Card, you have the right to appeal that decision Your appeal should start with a request to the Director of Human
Resources to review your case. [Note: If the position/contract you seek is in the Office of Inspector General (OIG), you should appeal to the
Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the OIG.] Your request must be made within five workdays of receiving notification of the
denial, and should specify the basis for your belief that the decision to deny you a PIV Card was incorrect. If you are not satisfied with the
decision at this stage, you may make a further appeal to the Director of Administration [or the Inspector General in the case of a
position/contract in the OIG] within five workdays of receiving the decision at the initial stage of the appeal.


Correcting Incorrect Information

You have the right to present evidence to correct any information that you believe to be incorrect that is obtained about you as a result of the
PIV Card identity proofing, registration/enrollment, and issuance. Such evidence should be presented to the Director of Human Resources [or the
Assistant Inspector General for Investigations in the OIG for a position/contract in the OIG] as soon as you become aware of a decision being
made about you based on the incorrect information. A PIV Applicant Representative is available to assist you in removing incorrect


information from your records. The name of your PIV Applicant Representative is Marvina Sims. She can be reached at telephone number 312-751-
4943.
Privacy Rights
The information collected during the PIV process may be disclosed in accordance with the Railroad Retirement Board’s published routine uses as
stated in System of Records RRB-46 and RRB-48 and as otherwise permitted under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. § 552a), including disclosure:
to the Office of Personnel Management, the Merit Systems Protection Board, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, and the Federal Labor
Relations Authority upon an authorized request; to agencies, contractors, and others to administer personnel and payroll systems, for debt
collection and for employment or security investigations; to law enforcement agencies if the Railroad Retirement Board becomes aware of a
possible violation of a law or regulation; to a Congressional office in response to requests made on your behalf; to the Department of Justice,
courts, and counsel during litigation; to unions if needed to perform their authorized duties; to other agencies under approved computer
matches; and as otherwise authorized by law or regulations.


Violations of Privacy

Any person who knowing and willfully discloses information in violation of the Privacy Act is subject to civil, criminal and/or administrative
penalties.

Please contact the Bureau of Human Resources (312/751-4580) with any questions regarding the information contained in this notice.




CERTIFICATION OF EIT ACCESSIBILITY

I do hereby certify, as the designated representative of the offeror, to the best of my knowledge, that the Information  Technology  products  or
services offered herein, in response to the government solicitation number (above), do hereby meet the  Electronics  and  Information  Technology
Accessibility Standards checked below (use “X” or “(”) under the designated categories.


                  (Signature)                            (Date)



            Name (F,L, MI)                         Title



                                                         Subpart B - Technical Standards


(  § 1194.21 Software applications and operating systems.

 ❑ When software is designed to run on a system that has a keyboard, product functions shall be executable from a  keyboard  where  the  function
   itself or the result of performing a function can be discerned textually.
 ❑ Applications shall not disrupt or disable activated features of other products that are identified  as  accessibility  features,  where  those
   features are developed and documented according to industry standards. Applications also shall not disrupt or disable  activated  features  of
   any operating system that are identified as accessibility features  where  the  application  programming  interface  for  those  accessibility
   features has been documented by the manufacturer of the operating system and is available to the product developer.
 ❑ A well-defined on-screen indication of the current focus shall be provided that moves among interactive interface elements as the input  focus
   changes. The focus shall be programmatically exposed so that assistive technology can track focus and focus changes.
 ❑ Sufficient information about a user interface element including the identity, operation and  state  of  the  element  shall  be  available  to
   assistive technology. When an image represents a program element, the information conveyed by the image must also be available in text.
 ❑ When bitmap images are used to identify controls, status indicators, or other programmatic elements, the  meaning  assigned  to  those  images
   shall be consistent throughout an application's performance.
 ❑ Textual information shall be provided through operating system functions for displaying text. The  minimum  information  that  shall  be  made
   available is text content, text input caret location, and text attributes.
 ❑ Applications shall not override user selected contrast and color selections and other individual display attributes.
 ❑ When animation is displayed, the information shall be displayable in at least one non-animated presentation mode at the option of the user.
 ❑ Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a  response,  or  distinguishing  a
   visual element.
 ❑ When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a variety of color selections capable of producing a  range  of  contrast
   levels shall be provided.
 ❑ Software shall not use flashing or blinking text, objects, or other elements having a flash or blink frequency greater than  2  Hz  and  lower
   than 55 Hz.
 ❑ When electronic forms are used, the form shall allow people using  assistive  technology  to  access  the  information,  field  elements,  and
   functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.

(  § 1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.

 ❑ A text equivalent for every non-text element shall be provided (e.g., via "alt", "longdesc", or in element content).
 ❑ Equivalent alternatives for any multimedia presentation shall be synchronized with the presentation.
 ❑ Web pages shall be designed so that all information conveyed with color is also available without color, for example from context or markup.
 ❑ Documents shall be organized so they are readable without requiring an associated style sheet.
 ❑ Redundant text links shall be provided for each active region of a server-side image map.
 ❑ Client-side image maps shall be provided instead of server-side image maps except where the  regions  cannot  be  defined  with  an  available
   geometric shape.
 ❑ Row and column headers shall be identified for data tables.
 ❑ Markup shall be used to associate data cells and header cells for data tables that have two or more logical levels of row or column headers.
 ❑ Frames shall be titled with text that facilitates frame identification and navigation.
 ❑ Pages shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.
 ❑ A text-only page, with equivalent information or functionality, shall be provided to make a web site comply with the provisions of this  part,
   when compliance cannot be accomplished in any other way. The content of the text-only page shall be updated whenever the primary page changes.
 ❑ When pages utilize scripting languages to display content, or to create interface elements, the information provided by the  script  shall  be
   identified with functional text that can be read by assistive technology.
 ❑ When a web page requires that an applet, plug-in or other application be present on the client system to  interpret  page  content,  the  page
   must provide a link to a plug-in or applet that complies with §1194.21(a) through (l).
 ❑ When electronic forms are designed to be completed on-line, the form shall allow people using assistive technology to access the  information,
   field elements, and functionality required for completion and submission of the form, including all directions and cues.
 ❑ A method shall be provided that permits users to skip repetitive navigation links.
 ❑ When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.

Note to §1194.22: 1. The Board interprets paragraphs (a) through (k) of this section as consistent with the following priority 1  Checkpoints  of
the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines 1.0 (WCAG 1.0) (May 5, 1999) published by the  Web  Accessibility  Initiative  of  the  World  Wide  Web
Consortium:

|Section 1194.22 Paragraph                             |WCAG 1.0 Checkpoint                      |
|(a)                                                   |1.1                                      |
|(b)                                                   |1.4                                      |
|(c)                                                   |2.1                                      |
|(d)                                                   |6.1                                      |
|(e)                                                   |1.2                                      |
|(f)                                                   |9.1                                      |
|(g)                                                   |5.1                                      |
|(h)                                                   |5.2                                      |
|(i)                                                   |12.1                                     |
|(j)                                                   |7.1                                      |
|(k)                                                   |11.4                                     |

2. Paragraphs (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p) of this section are different from WCAG 1.0. Web pages that conform to WCAG 1.0, level A (i.e., all
priority 1 checkpoints) must also meet paragraphs (l), (m), (n), (o), and (p) of this section to comply with this section. WCAG 1.0 is available
at http://www.w3.org/TR/1999/WAI-WEBCONTENT-19990505.


(  § 1194.23 Telecommunications products.

 ❑ Telecommunications products or systems which provide a function allowing voice communication  and  which  do  not  themselves  provide  a  TTY
   functionality shall provide a standard non-acoustic connection point for TTYs. Microphones shall be capable of being  turned  on  and  off  to
   allow the user to intermix speech with TTY use.
 ❑ Telecommunications products which  include  voice  communication  functionality  shall  support  all  commonly  used  cross-manufacturer  non-
   proprietary standard TTY signal protocols.
 ❑ Voice mail, auto-attendant, and interactive voice response telecommunications systems shall be usable by TTY users with their TTYs.
 ❑ Voice mail, messaging, auto-attendant, and interactive voice response telecommunications systems that require a response from a user within  a
   time interval, shall give an alert when the time interval is about to run out, and shall provide sufficient time for the user to indicate more
   time is required.
 ❑ Where provided, caller identification and similar telecommunications functions shall also be available for users of TTYs, and  for  users  who
   cannot see displays.
 ❑ For transmitted voice signals, telecommunications products shall provide a gain adjustable up to a minimum of 20 dB.  For  incremental  volume
   control, at least one intermediate step of 12 dB of gain shall be provided.
 ❑ If the telecommunications product allows a user to adjust the receive volume, a function shall be provided to automatically reset  the  volume
   to the default level after every use.
 ❑ Where a telecommunications product delivers output by an audio transducer which is normally  held  up  to  the  ear,  a  means  for  effective
   magnetic wireless coupling to hearing technologies shall be provided.
 ❑ Interference to hearing technologies (including hearing aids, cochlear implants, and assistive listening devices)  shall  be  reduced  to  the
   lowest possible level that allows a user of hearing technologies to utilize the telecommunications product.
 ❑ Products that transmit or conduct information or communication, shall  pass  through  cross-manufacturer,  non-proprietary,  industry-standard
   codes, translation protocols, formats or other information necessary  to  provide  the  information  or  communication  in  a  usable  format.
   Technologies which use encoding, signal compression, format transformation, or similar techniques shall  not  remove  information  needed  for
   access or shall restore it upon delivery.
 ❑ Products which have mechanically operated controls or keys, shall comply with the following:
    ❑ Controls and keys shall be tactilely discernible without activating the controls or keys.
    ❑ Controls and keys shall be operable with one hand and shall not require tight grasping, pinching, or  twisting  of  the  wrist.  The  force
      required to activate controls and keys shall be 5 lbs. (22.2 N) maximum.
    ❑ If key repeat is supported, the delay before repeat shall be adjustable to at least 2 seconds. Key repeat rate shall  be  adjustable  to  2
      seconds per character.
    ❑ The status of all locking or toggle controls or keys shall be visually discernible, and discernible either through touch or sound.

(  § 1194.24 Video and multimedia products.

 ❑ All analog television displays 13 inches and larger, and computer equipment that includes analog television  receiver  or  display  circuitry,
   shall be equipped with caption decoder circuitry which appropriately receives, decodes, and displays closed captions  from  broadcast,  cable,
   videotape, and DVD signals. As soon as practicable, but not later than July 1, 2002, widescreen digital television (DTV) displays measuring at
   least 7.8 inches vertically, DTV sets with conventional displays measuring at least 13 inches vertically, and stand-alone DTV tuners,  whether
   or not they are marketed with display screens, and computer equipment that includes DTV receiver or display circuitry, shall be equipped  with
   caption decoder circuitry which appropriately receives, decodes, and displays closed  captions  from  broadcast,  cable,  videotape,  and  DVD
   signals.
 ❑ Television tuners, including tuner cards for use in computers, shall be equipped with secondary audio program playback circuitry.
 ❑ All training and informational video and multimedia productions which support the agency's mission, regardless of format, that contain  speech
   or other audio information necessary for the comprehension of the content, shall be open or closed captioned.
 ❑ All training and informational video and multimedia productions which support the agency's mission, regardless of format, that contain  visual
   information necessary for the comprehension of the content, shall be audio described.
 ❑ Display or presentation of alternate text presentation or audio descriptions shall be user-selectable unless permanent.


(  § 1194.25 Self contained, closed products.

 ❑ Self contained products shall be usable by people with disabilities without requiring an  end-user  to  attach  assistive  technology  to  the
   product. Personal headsets for private listening are not assistive technology.
 ❑ When a timed response is required, the user shall be alerted and given sufficient time to indicate more time is required.
 ❑ Where a product utilizes touchscreens or contact-sensitive controls, an input method shall be provided that complies  with  §1194.23  (k)  (1)
   through (4).
 ❑ When biometric forms of user identification or control are used, an alternative form of identification or activation, which does  not  require
   the user to possess particular biological characteristics, shall also be provided.
 ❑ When products provide auditory output, the audio signal shall be provided at a standard signal level through an  industry  standard  connector
   that will allow for private listening. The product must provide the ability to interrupt, pause, and restart the audio at anytime.
 ❑ When products deliver voice output in a public area, incremental volume control shall be provided with output amplification up to a  level  of
   at least 65 dB. Where the ambient noise level of the environment is above 45 dB, a volume gain of at least 20 dB above the ambient level shall
   be user selectable. A function shall be provided to automatically reset the volume to the default level after every use.
 ❑ Color coding shall not be used as the only means of conveying information, indicating an action, prompting a  response,  or  distinguishing  a
   visual element.
 ❑ When a product permits a user to adjust color and contrast settings, a range of color selections capable of producing a  variety  of  contrast
   levels shall be provided.
 ❑ Products shall be designed to avoid causing the screen to flicker with a frequency greater than 2 Hz and lower than 55 Hz.
 ❑ Products which are freestanding, non-portable, and intended to be used in one location and which have operable controls shall comply with  the
   following:
    ❑ The position of any operable control shall be determined with respect to a vertical plane, which is 48 inches in length,  centered  on  the
      operable control, and at the maximum protrusion of the product within the 48 inch length (see Figure 1 of this part).
    ❑ Where any operable control is 10 inches or less behind the reference plane, the height shall be 54 inches maximum  and  15  inches  minimum
      above the floor.
    ❑ Where any operable control is more than 10 inches and not more than 24 inches behind the reference plane, the height  shall  be  46  inches
      maximum and 15 inches minimum above the floor.
    ❑ Operable controls shall not be more than 24 inches behind the reference plane (see Figure 2 of this part).


(  § 1194.26 Desktop and portable computers.

 ❑ All mechanically operated controls and keys shall comply with §1194.23 (k) (1) through (4).
 ❑ If a product utilizes touchscreens or touch-operated controls, an input method shall be provided that complies with §1194.23 (k)  (1)  through
   (4).
 ❑ When biometric forms of user identification or control are used, an alternative form of identification or activation, which does  not  require
   the user to possess particular biological characteristics, shall also be provided.
 ❑ Where provided, at least one of each type of expansion slots, ports and connectors shall comply with publicly available industry standards.

                                                   Subpart C -- Functional Performance Criteria

(  § 1194.31 Functional performance criteria.
 ❑ At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user  vision  shall  be  provided,  or  support  for  assistive
   technology used by people who are blind or visually impaired shall be provided.
 ❑ At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require visual acuity greater than 20/70 shall  be  provided  in  audio
   and enlarged print output working together or independently, or support for assistive technology used by  people  who  are  visually  impaired
   shall be provided.
 ❑ At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user hearing  shall  be  provided,  or  support  for  assistive
   technology used by people who are deaf or hard of hearing shall be provided.
 ❑ Where audio information is important for the use of a product, at least one mode of operation and information retrieval shall be  provided  in
   an enhanced auditory fashion, or support for assistive hearing devices shall be provided.
 ❑ At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require user  speech  shall  be  provided,  or  support  for  assistive
   technology used by people with disabilities shall be provided.
 ❑ At least one mode of operation and information retrieval that does not require  fine  motor  control  or  simultaneous  actions  and  that  is
   operable with limited reach and strength shall be provided.


                                               Subpart D -- Information, Documentation, and Support


(  § 1194.41 Information, documentation, and support.

 ❑ Product support documentation provided to end-users shall be made available in alternate formats upon request, at no additional charge.
 ❑ End-users shall have access to a description of the accessibility and compatibility features of products in  alternate  formats  or  alternate
   methods upon request, at no additional charge.
 ❑ Support services for products shall accommodate the communication needs of end-users with disabilities.

                                                              (End of Certification)

Figures to Part 1194
   Figure1
   Figure 2
1. Section 508 does not apply to national security systems, as that term is defined in section 5142 of the Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996  (40  U.S.C.
1452).

2. The Access Board is an independent Federal agency established by section 502 of the Rehabilitation Act (29 U.S.C. 792) whose  primary  mission
is to promote accessibility for individuals with disabilities. The Access Board consists of 25 members. Thirteen are appointed by  the  President
from among the public, a majority of who are required to be individuals with disabilities. The other twelve are heads of  the  following  Federal
agencies or their designees whose positions are Executive  Level  IV  or  above:  The  departments  of  Health  and  Human  Services,  Education,
Transportation, Housing and Urban Development,  Labor,  Interior,  Defense,  Justice,  Veterans  Affairs,  and  Commerce;  the  General  Services
Administration; and the United States Postal Service.

3. Whenever the Access Board revises its standards, the Federal  Acquisition  Regulatory  Council  is  required  to  revise  the  FAR,  and  each
appropriate Federal agency is required to revise its procurement policies and directives within six months to incorporate the revisions.

4. 48 CFR Chapter 1, part 2, §2.101 Definitions Information Technology (c).
SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER 5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

PAGE 1 OF

18
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

RRB09Q027
7. FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:
9. ISSUED BY a. NAME b. TELEPHONE NUMBER (No collect calls)

08/06/09
8. OFFER DUE DATE/ LOCAL TIME

velinda.nix@rrb.gov
CODE

312/751-3387
10. THIS ACQUISITON IS UNRESTRICTED OR SET ASIDE:

08/25/09
% FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS

U.S. Railroad Retirement Board Acquisition Management-Procurement 844 North Rush Street Chicago, IL 60611
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

SMALL BUSINESS NAICS: SIZE STANDARD:

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

8(A)

13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) CODE 16. ADMINISTERED BY

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION RFQ IFB CODE RFP

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

1

Open Systems Storage and Services - See Attached

(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary) 25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. ADDENDA 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. ADDENDA

ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED ARE NOT ATTACHED

28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND

1

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT: REF.

OFFER

DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED 30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:

31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

19. ITEM NO.

20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES

21. QUANTITY

22. UNIT

23. UNIT PRICE

24. AMOUNT

32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED:

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32c. DATE

32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE 32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER PARTIAL FINAL 38. S/R ACCOUNT NO.

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER

40. PAID BY 42a. RECEIVED BY (Print) 42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

STANDARD FORM 1449

(REV. 3/2005)

BACK

