
Current NSF System Details
Financial Management System: Financial Accounting System (FAS)
Type: Legacy
# of system users: 1200 (300 read-only)
Modules/Functionality: General Ledger
Funds Management
Accounts Payable
Accounts Receivable
Project/Cost Accounting
Hosted by/Managed by: NSF
Other NSF Systems:
Grants Management Awards Systems (Awards) (Stores grant award information and interfaces with FAS to obligate funds)
Grants Management FastLane (On-line submission of grant proposals, fund requests, and financial status reporting by grantees.Interfaces with FAS.)
Grants Management Proposal and Review System (PARS) (Interfaces with FAS to check funds availability and committ funds)
Procurement System Automated Acquisition Management System (AAMS)
Travel - E-Travel System FedTraveler
Guest Travel System Guest Travel and Reimbursement System (Guest) (Reimburses non NSF employees for travel)
Training Learning Management System (LMS)
Reporting Tool Report Web
Reporting Tool Enterprise Information System (EIS)
Payroll  Federal Personnel and Payroll System (FPPS)
Vendor Management (government-wide) Central Contractor Registration (CCR)
Vendor Management (NSF Only) Institution Database
General Annual Amount / Quantity
Annual Budget $: $6,196 Million System generated, Congressional Approval $5,917 Million. 
Number of employees (FTE): 1295 full time and 42 part time NSF employees 
Number of Appropriations/Treasury Symbols: 43 Treasure Symbols 10 Appropiations
Number of Fund types: four 2 year funds, two 1 year funds, Three no year funds, one no year trust fund
Amount of Grant Dollars awarded: 5558509870.21
Amount of Donation and Trust Fund Dollars received: 41280961.11
Amount of Donations / Contributions received: 100 (transactions)
Technology Description Product Version / # of Licenses
Current Financial System: FAS Custom built Number of users: 1200 (300 read-only)
Operating System Domain Server Windows 2003 Server
User Workstations  MS Windows XP-SP2
E-Mail Server  MS Exchange 2003 e-mail servers
Unix Server SUN Solaris
Database Sybase ASE 12.5.3
Application Server
Data warehouse
Development Tools PowerBuilder 10.2
C++  2.8.1
Java 1.4.2
Perl 5.6
Sybase SQL Advantage 12.5.3
PowerGen 7.0
Rational Clearcase 2003.06.10+
Rational Clearquest 2003.06.14.567.000
Eclipse 3.11
Testing tools Rational Test Manager 2003.06.14.567
Other 3rd Party Software ReportWeb 3.2.0.2
Aqua Data Studio 4.0.1
Service Description NSF Responsible 
Organization Annual # of Events/
Frequency
Accounting Services 
Funds Management 
Budget Documents (warrant, appropriations, apportionments, rescissions, etc.)  421.0
Allocation Documents (internal agency budget plans)-count of documents 4929.0
Allocation Documents (internal agency budget plans)-count of transactions 11387.0
Funding Documents (inter-agency agreements) 1077.0
Budget Plans-Interagency agreements-count of documents 1233.0
Budget Plans-Interagency agreements-count of transactions 2832.0
Reprogramming Documents (move money between object classes on budget plans)-post award actions (2926), funds transfer actions (3806) 6732.0
Commitments (purchase request or other entry to set aside funds)-non CGI (CGI captured under Cash Management) 24047.0
Decommitment actions 1895.0
Upward/downward adjustments--commitment actions 192.0
Obligations - purchase orders 1166.0
Obligations - inter-agency agreements 653.0
Obligations - training documents 926.0
Obligations - contracts 410.0
Obligations - travel (incl interagency-154) 20244.0
Obligations - other/misc  511.0
Deobligations-all 1780.0
Upward/downward adjustments-all non-grant 18894.0
General Ledger Processing
Automated Transactions (i.e. via transaction codes) 486343.0
Manual Journal Vouchers-count of JV document IDs DFM/AOB 360.0
Accounts Payable
Number of automated disbursements (i.e. IPAC, wire transfers) DFM/AOB 4000/year on average
Number of manual disbursements (i.e. 1080 form) DFM/AOB 250-300/year; ad hoc
Number of vendor invoices (FAS transaction entries-may be applied across multiple amendments); invoice count approx 5890 7020.0
Number of invoices acted upon (incl those carried over fr FY06) 6992.0
Number of travel related disbursements-(Guest)-to individuals 16466.0
Number of travel related disbursements-(FedTraveler)-to individuals 1613.0
Number of travel ticket transactions (summary records at obligation level; incl reconciling entries, refunds, fees) 16235.0
Number of non-ticket file, non-Guest, non FedTraveler travel related disbursements to individuals 14063.0
Number of interest payments disbursed (related to prompt payment act) 214.0
Number of stipend disbursements DFM/AOB 3600/year; monthly
Number of foreign payments 260 (checks) 
Number of miscellaneous payments (under MORs, etc) 3267.0
Number of EFT returns/reissues 386.0
Number of zero-dollar closeout transactions 30578.0
Cash Management
Manual Program Payments (grants, other program payment vouchers) 1671.0
Automated Program Payment Files (payment files from customer feeder system); data shown reflects purchase card file upload.  See above for Guest and FedTraveler reimbursements to individuals 10163.0
Accounts Receivable
Manual Billing Documents (paper document to establish receivable) 98.0
Automated Billing Files (receivable files from customer billing system) 281.0
Manual Collection Documents (paper documents to liquidate a receivable) 48.0
Automated Collection Files (collection files from customer collection system) 630.0
Credit Card Collections and bank used: N/A
Receivable  Write-off Transactions 11.0
Number of interest payments received (related to prompt payment act) 49 (note:  these interest payments received are NOT relateed to Prompt Payment Act)
Grants Management
Number of competitive awards funded in FY2008 11162.0
Number of payment requests for awarded grant funding (via Fastlane)-advances  19481.0
Number of payment disbursements for grant funding/expenditures  147410.0
Number of continuing grant increments CGIs-(Awards/DIAS) TBD
Number of upward/downward grant-related adjustments  25731.0
Number of PI transfer actions  772.0
Number of FCTRs/FFRs submitted-FastLane 6538.0
Inter-agency Agreements Processing
Number of inter-agency agreements currently managed 400-450
Number of inter-agency agreements received 400-450
Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) Mobility Program-HR
# of IPAs TBD
# of contracts associated with IPAs TBD
Amount spent on IPA related expenses (i.e. relocation) TBD
Other Document Processing
# of Individual Address Maintenance-EFT FAS updates (manual entry, FastLane, etc) 5781 FastLane
# of Individual Address Maintenance-non-EFT FAS updates (manual entry, FastLane) 10713 FastLane
# of Institution/Vendor updates-EFT FAS updates via CCR 1612 CCR
Financial Reporting
Statement of Transactions (SF-224)  DFM/AOB 12/year; monthly
Inter-agency Performance Report DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Intragovernmental F-Transactions Report DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Intragovernmental Confirmations DFM/AOB 130-150/year; quarterly
Intragovernmental Fiduciary Confirmation System (IFCS)  DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Status of Disposition Certification (Material Difference Report) DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Balance Sheet  DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Statement of Net Cost   DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Statement of Changes in Net Position  DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Statement of Budgetary Resources  DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Reconciliation of Budgetary to Proprietary (formerly Statement of Financing) DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Federal Agencies’ Centralized Trial-Balance System II Reports 
(FACTS II: 2108, ATB, SF-133, Fund & Account Attributes) manual DFM/AOB n/a
Federal Agencies’ Centralized Trial-Balance System II Reports 
(FACTS II: 2108, ATB, SF-133, Fund & Account Attributes) bulk upload DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Treasury Report on Receivables (TROR) DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Confirmation on Cash/Investments held outside US Treasury (CIHO) DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
International Transactions Report (SF-13) DFM/AOB 4/year; quarterly
Federal Agencies’ Centralized Trial-Balance System I Reports (FACTS I) manual DFM/AOB 1/year; annually
Federal Agencies’ Centralized Trial-Balance System I Reports (FACTS I) bulk upload DFM/AOB n/a
Closing Package (Re-classified Statements) via GFRS DFM/AOB 1/year; annually
Debt Collection Improvement Act (DCIA) Annual Report  DFM/AOB 1/year; annually
Work Years and Personnel Costs Report DFM/AOB 1/year; annually
Procurement Services DACS/DAS
Simplified Acquisitions
Open Market POs/BPAs 394.0 394.0
Modifications to Open Market POs/BPAs 98.0 98.0
GSA Schedule Orders/BPAs 308.0 308.0
Modifications to GSA Schedule Orders/BPAs 316.0 316.0
Orders under GWACs 26.0 26.0
Modifications to GWAC Orders 19.0 19.0
Total Number 1161.0 1161.0
What is the average dollar value of these purchase orders? 171184.0
Contracts
Number of contracts awarded per year 11.0
How many are fixed price? 1.0
How many are time and materials and labor-hour? 7.0
How many are cost-type? 3.0
Delivery Orders or Task Orders under NSF Contracts 40.0 40.0
Modifications to DOs or TOs under NSF Contracts 83.0 83.0
Co-operative Agreements Awards/DIAS
Number of agreements executed  TBD
Purchase Card Program DAS
Number of card holders in purchase card program 250.0
Number of approving officials in purchase card program TBD
What is the purchase card threshold for non-procurement buyers? TBD
Travel Services (NSF cardholders)
Travel Services (NSF cardholders)
Number of cards in travel card program 950.0
Number of travelers TBD
Number of other eTravel users (support staff, etc.) TBD
Number of  travel requests 16745.0
Travel Services (Guest)--DAS
Number of travelers  12301.0
Number of automated travel requests  16632.0
All Other Transaction Processing 
Payroll Accounting File Processing
Current E-payroll Provider DOI (NBC/FPPS)
Vendor and Employee File Maintenance/1099 Reporting
Individuals 11867.0
Vendors -  519.0
Use of CCR for vendors?  Y/N (for contract, purchase order vendors-yes; not yet required for grantees) TBD
Use of e-payroll banking for travelers?  Y/N  yes
CCR exceptions?

System* Interface Type Complexity Interface Frequency Details
NSF Specific Systems Institution Database (NSF Vendor Management) Batch Single Direction Daily Vendor records new and updates inbound
NSF Grants Management System (FastLane, PARS, Awards) On Demand Multi Direction Minutes Grant Vendors new and updates, Commitments, Obligations, Payment Requests inbound and Financial data outbound to Grants
Automated Acquisition Management System (AAMS) Procurement System On Demand Multi Direction Minutes Contracts and Simplified Acquisition Obligations inbound
Guest Travel (NSF Reimbursement System for Panelist) Batch Single Direction Daily Obligations and Payment Requests inbound
TBD Property Management System Batch Multi Direction Daily Asset acquisitions outbound, depreciation inbound
TBD Reporting Tool Near Real Time Single Direction Hourly/Daily Financial and document data outbound
Standard Federal Systems Central Contractor Registration (CCR) Batch Single Direction Daily Vendor records new and updates inbound
FedTraveler Batch Multi Direction Minutes Travel Orders (Obligations) and Travel Vouchers (Invoices) inbound
FedBizOpps Batch Single Direction Hourly Contracts and Simplified Acquisition documents outbound
JPMorgan Chase Travel Credit Card Processing System  Batch Single Direction Daily Credit Card Detail inbound
JPMorgan Chase Government Purchase Card Service  Batch Single Direction Daily Credit Card Detail inbound
Federal Personnel and Payroll System (FPPS) Batch Single Direction Weekly Payroll entries, adjustments and accruals inbound
Learning Management System (LMS) Training System Batch Single Direction Minutes Obligations inbound
General Services Administration FPDS-NG Batch Single Direction Daily Contract information outbound
U.S. Treasury CA$HLINK Batch Single Direction Daily Collections inbound
U.S. Treasury GOALS II Batch Multi Direction Daily Payment reconciliation information inbound, SF224 outbound
U.S. Treasury FMSInTouch (FACTS II) Batch Single Direction Quarterly FACTSII Reporting outbound
U.S. Treasury DMS (FedDebt and TROR) Batch Multi Direction Monthly Collections inbound and TROR outbound
U.S. Treasury TWAI (IPAC) Batch Multi Direction Daily IPAC Collections outbound and IPAC Payments inbound
U.S. Treasury PACER (Payments) Batch Single Direction Hourly Payments outbound
U.S. Treasury Pay.Gov (Future) Batch Single Direction Daily Collections inbound
U.S. Treasury SPS Batch Single Direction Daily Payment details inbound
*The systems listed are assumptions at this time for purposes of the RFI.

Table Instructions:
The table on the "Functional Area Estimates" tab contains the areas that NSF is considering for the iTRAK implementation.  Please follow the guidance below to populate the table.
Field Name Description
Estimated Costs for Deployment Provide the estimated cost for deploying the functional area.
Recommended Federal FTEs Provide an estimate of the number of Federal Full Time Employees that will be needed to support Deployment.
Estimated Costs for Operation & Maintenance Support Provide the estimated cost for operations and mainteance of the functional area.
Recommended Federal FTEs Provide an estimate of the number of Federal Full Time Employees that will be needed to support Operations & Maintenance.
# Implementation Activity Estimated Costs for Deployment Recommended Federal FTEs (for Deployement) Estimated Costs for Operation & Maintenance Support Recommended Federal FTEs (for O&M)
Business Functions 1.0 Core Financials (General Ledger,  Budget Execution, Grants Accounting, Payment Management, Collections)
2.0 Budget Formulation
3.0 Property, Plant & Equipment (Real and Personal Property)
4.0 Acquisition
5.0 Reporting (Operational, Federally Mandated and Data Warehouse)
Other 6.0 Data Conversion
7.0 Interfaces to NSF-specific systems*
8.0 Interfaces to standard Federal systems**
9.0 Business Process Support  Services***
*NSF-specific systems include: FastLane, PARS, Awards, Guest Travel, Institutions, Property, Acquisition, and Reporting
**Standard Federal systems include CCR, FedTraveler, JPMorgan Chase Credit Card, FPPS, LMS, FPDS-NG, and U.S. Treasury Systems
***This includes transaction processing (invoice and travel payments), financial management (financial reporting, reconciliation and audit support), and other operational services you may provide.

General Information
Request for Information Number: DACS09-RFI-KR01
Subject:    Request for Information
Date: March 20, 2009
NAICS:      541512 Computer Systems Design Services

Contracting Specialist:      Ms. Kay Marie Rison
CS’s Address:    National Science Foundation
                  4201 Wilson Boulevard
                  Arlington, VA 22230
CS’s Email Address:    mrison@nsf.gov
Response Due Date:     April 10, 2009


   Request for Information

The purpose of this Request for Information (RFI) is to assist the National Science Foundation (NSF) in conducting market research to determine
the interest and capabilities of qualified companies/agencies for the opportunity described below. This request is for information purposes only
to help NSF gain a better understanding of potential solutions and overall costs. Responses will assist NSF in developing the acquisition
strategy including the alternatives analysis and in determining the appropriate approach for acquiring the systems implementation services,
hosting and application management shared services, and software. Respondents must identify any information they consider to be sensitive or
proprietary.   Vendors are encouraged to limit their use of sensitive and proprietary information.  However should responses contain sensitive
and proprietary information, the information will be handled accordingly.  Any information submitted will not be returned, and no payment will
be made by the Government for such information.

This RFI is not a request for proposal and the Government will not award a contract pursuant to this announcement. No solicitation package is
available at this time and requests for solicitation packages will not receive a response. Please do not contact the NSF CFO and CIO or their
staff at this time.

NSF has contracted with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP (PwC) under NSFDACS08D1596 for financial management modernization planning support, among
other services. As part of the financial management modernization planning support task, PwC is required to assist NSF in conducting market
research. Part of the market research includes the development of the RFI and review of responses resulting from the issuance of the RFI. In
accordance with Part 9 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) it has been determined that as a result of receiving award NSFDACS08D1596, an
organizational conflict exists which will prohibit PwC from proposing on the design, development, and implementation effort that may result from
this RFI.  Further, PwC is bound by confidentiality of information provisions under their contract with NSF.

   About NSF

The National Science Foundation (NSF), established by Congress in 1950, is the premier federal agency supporting research across  all  fields  of
science and engineering and all levels of science and engineering education. NSF funds the best ideas and most promising  people,  searching  out
the frontiers of science and engineering to foster high-risk, potentially transformative research that will generate important  discoveries,  new
technologies, and a dynamic workforce. NSF also provides funding for advanced instrumentation and facilities that  allow  scientists,  engineers,
and students to work at the forefront of knowledge. NSF has one location for all operations in Arlington, Virginia.

Although NSF's annual budget represents less than 4 percent of the total federal budget for research and development, NSF provides more  than  40
percent of the federal support for nonmedical basic research at America's colleges and universities. NSF  is  the  principal  source  of  federal
academic support. NSF supports research and education through a competitive, merit-based review process.

Basic research generates new ideas that support productivity growth and an improving quality of life. Basic  research  underpins  the  technology
that is fueling today's global market. Innovation and technology are engines of the American economy, and advances  in  science  and  engineering
provide the fuel. NSF-supported discoveries have contributed to the nation's knowledge base, to our economy, and to the high standard  of  living
Americans enjoy. Moreover, the new knowledge and new tools, methods, and processes generated by NSF's investments provide insight  into  many  of
today's complex national and global challenges. NSF's task is to kindle the leadership and excellence in basic research and education that  keeps
America at the leading edge of science, engineering, and technology.

   RFI Purpose

NSF is in the process of replacing its legacy financial management, budget execution, and property management systems under an effort known as
iTRAK. NSF is also considering the feasibility of including the acquisition system as part of iTRAK. To replace these systems, iTRAK requires
support in the form of systems implementation services, hosting and application management shared services, and software. NSF plans to acquire
all services and software through a single acquisition process that will result in one award.

This notice is issued solely for information and planning purposes. It is not a solicitation and does not constitute a request for proposal
(RFP). NSF may release an RFP and respond to questions at a later date. If NSF proceeds with a formal procurement process, the proposed solution
will have to be in compliance with all relevant federal laws and regulations (as defined in the procurement).

NSF may conduct a single public-private competition to acquire all required integration services, hosting and application management shared
services, and software. The services and software will be acquired from a Federal government Financial Management Line of Business (FMLoB)
Shared Service Provider (SSP) using an inter-agency agreement or from a commercial vendor using a yet to be determined contract vehicle.

The competition will be guided by the Office of Management and Budget’s (OMB) Competition Framework for Financial Management Lines of Business
Migrations [May 22, 2006][1] and the Financial Systems Integration Office (FSIO) FMLoB Migration Planning Guidance [Version 1, September 13,
2006][2]; however, neither of those documents will form the basis of any evaluation of offers submitted in response to an RFP. Rather, the
competition will be conducted in accordance with applicable provisions of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)[3], and offers will be
evaluated in conformance with the provisions of the FAR and the terms of the solicitation.

If NSF releases an RFP it may include:

   1. A performance-based statement of work, instructions for the submission of technical and price quotations, evaluation criteria, information
      about the requirements for a mandatory proof of concept, and applicable general terms and conditions.

   2. A set of system requirements consisting of applicable FSIO requirements and NSF-specific requirements.

   3. Information about NSF’s business processes related to grants financial management and property management.

   4. Information about NSF’s other business processes, including procurement, accounts payable, accounts receivable, etc.

   5. Information about NSF’s existing financial systems architecture, including information about automated and manual interfaces and feeder
      systems.


     Key Business Drivers

To provide some additional background and context for NSF's iTRAK project, a list of key business issues driving NSF's need for financial
systems modernization follows:

   1. NSF is a leader in grants management and a key element for the future financial system is to meet the grant financial requirements and
      fully integrate with the financial system.

   2. The current lack of an integrated PP&E system is resulting in a variety of manually intensive procedures which are prone to errors. An
      integrated PP&E system would ultimately improve the integrity, accountability, completeness, and timeliness of reporting PP&E activities in
      NSF’s financial statements.

   3. Ever evolving business processes and compliance requirements necessitate constant modifications to Financial Accounting System (FAS) which
      are costly and inefficient. The level of effort to develop and test system changes and increased external manual processes can reduce the
      efficiency, effectiveness and accuracy of the financial information.

   4. OMB is defining a government-wide account classification structure and standard business processes that NSF will be required to implement.



   5. OMB Circular A-127 requires that agencies record financial events at the transaction level in a manner that is consistent with the
      applicable definitions, attributes, and processing rules of the U.S. Standard General Ledger (USSGL). There are a growing number of
      variances between current FAS functionality and the most recent OMB/Financial Systems Integration Office requirements. NSF has a number of
      transaction codes that are not compliant with the Standard General Ledger (SGL) and the established Treasury standards.

   6. The current lack of an integrated Procurement System is resulting in manual procedures for both ensuring that funds have been appropriately
      committed as well as obligated once an award has been made and thus prone to errors.  An integrated Procurement System would improve the
      integrity and timeliness of reporting obligation activities in NSF’s financial system.


   Project Scope and Approach

NSF environment includes numerous custom systems designed and developed to meet  specific  business  requirements.  The  custom  systems  include
functions and features that were engineered to take advantage of technology available during development.  The  systems  are  tightly  integrated
including shared tables and relevant data records. The details of the existing environment are provided in  the  following  section  Current  NSF
Environment.

NSF is conducting market research [FAR 10.001] to arrive at the most suitable approach for acquiring the systems implementation services,
hosting and application management, business services, and software to migrate to a FSIO certified financial system. Additional capabilities
under consideration include integration or replacement of the current acquisition system and installation of property management and budget
formulation systems.  As part of the Market Research, NSF reserves the right to conduct one-on-one meetings with vendors that provide in-depth
or unique responses.  The NSF will consider partial responses.

NSF invites Federal SSPs and commercial vendors to assist with this research by providing responses to each question below.


1 Deployment Approach

   1. What deployment approach do you suggest for financial system implementation into your environment - phased, big bang, hybrid? Describe the
      important factors in recommending an approach. Include definition of the approach, functionality deployed, duration in months, benefits and
      limitations.

   2. What deployment approaches have your customers used in past implementations?

   3. What are lessons learned on specific deployment approaches?


2 Scope

   1. Describe the real and personal property capabilities as an integrated part of the financial system and/or as a third party interface to the
      system. What third party systems are integrated as part of the asset management system? Is the integration in real time, near real time or
      batch? What approach do you recommend for real and personal property management?

   2. Does the system include acquisition capabilities as an integrated part of the financials system and/or as a third party interface to the
      system? What third party acquisition or contract writing system has been integrated to the financial system? Is the integration in real
      time, near real time or batch? Describe the integration and supported processes. What approach do you recommend for acquisition management?

   3. Describe the integration and supported processes between the PP&E and acquisition systems. Is the integration in real time, near real time
      or batch? What approach do you recommend for integrating the two systems?

   4. Does the system include budget formulation and reporting capabilities as an integrated part of the financials system and/or as a third
      party interface to the system capabilities as an integrated part of the financial system and/or as a third party interface to the system.
      What third party systems are integrated as part of the budget formulation system? Is the integration in real time, near real time or batch?
      Please list the capabilities. What approach do you recommend for budget formulation and reporting?

   5. Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for integrating reporting tools with the financial system. What reporting strategy do you
      recommend for operational and federally mandated reports?


3 Data Conversion

   1. What tools, protocols and other methodologies do you suggest for the development of conversion programs? Describe each, including the
      benefits and limitations.

   2. What strategy do you recommend for data conversion from legacy systems?  Is there data that you recommend not converting?  How should that
      data be stored for historical reference and to be compliant with data retention guidelines?

   3. How many years of historical data do other customers maintain after go-live of the new system? Is there an archive process that provides
      limited access to data?

   4. Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for executing data clean-up and data conversion.


4 Services - Accounting, Reporting, Helpdesk

   1. What are the support models you have to provide accounting and reporting services?

   2. What are the estimated costs (ROM) associated with each level of service?

   3. Explain what functions the helpdesk will provide and how it will interact with the NSF helpdesk.


5 General Questions

   1. Change management is crucial to the success of a financial systems implementation.  What best practices are you aware of in this area?

   2. What type of training do you offer?  Describe the training options including benefits and limitations. What are the estimated costs
      associated with training?

   3. Are you aware of any best practices in training users on a new software package?  If so, please describe.

   4. What Operational support do you provide and what are the estimated associated costs?

   5. What forums or methods are used to collect input from your customers such as feedback, functionality requests, etc?

   6. What are some key lessons learned from past implementations you were responsible for and/or are aware of?

6 Estimated Costs

   1. On the Costing Estimates spreadsheet provided as part of the RFI package (Appendix C), provide approximate cost information (rough order of
      magnitude estimates) for expected system implementation costs for deployment  as well as for yearly ongoing operational costs - based on
      the minimal requirements outlined in the RFI (assuming it can be used with no major modification).  Appendix A: Current System Data and
      Appendix B: Interface Definitions are provided to support this estimate.

   2. The vendors are requested to identify the cost drivers for an effort of this nature.  In addition, vendors are requested to identify the
      cost factors that present the most risk.



   Current NSF Environment

NSF workforce has approximately 1295 full time employees and is characterized by constant change due to the ever-changing scientific landscape,
new workplace technologies and rotating staff.  Uniquely structured, NSF’s workforce is comprised of permanent and temporary staff including
“rotators” who work as Intergovernmental Personnel Act (IPA) researchers or Visiting Scientists, Engineers and Educators (VSEEs). NSF’s
workforce consists of four primary job family groupings: Management, Science and Engineering, Technical and Functional, and
Administrative/Support.

Financial System
From a business systems standpoint, NSF systems today are a mix of in-house developed systems, Commercial-off-the-Shelf (COTS) software and eGov
solutions. The legacy financial system has been serving NSF for over 20 years and has had a number of technology upgrades. It currently runs on
a Sybase server with PowerBuilder, C++ and Java as the front-end development tools. The Financial Accounting System (FAS) is an on-line real
time system and is the primary vehicle for managing all funding allocated to NSF. A central transaction management procedure called the “post-
routine” represents the core of the system, handling the full spectrum of financial transaction processing, accounts maintenance, transaction
history, and rules processing. This procedure processes any financial request, whether generated from within the Financial System itself or by
an external system. NSF Current System information is available in Appendix A.

FAS is extensively integrated with all of NSF’s core business systems including the e-Jacket, Proposal and Reviewer System, the Awards System,
Guest Travel System, and the FastLane System in support of Grants management. FAS is the main tool NSF staff utilizes to monitor, control, and
execute financial accountability of approximately $6B for 20,000 active grant awards with 2000 external grantees by using assistance agreements.

In FY05 NSF implemented an interface with the Federal Personnel and Payroll System (FPPS) that provides employees with web based access to their
employee information.  In FY06, NSF implemented a near real-time interface between FAS and FedTraveler that includes evaluation of funds
availability and funds obligation. NSF expects the same type of data exchanges with other externally provided E-Gov cross-services. The e-
Learning /FAS interfaces are scheduled to be implemented in FY 2009.

Property, Plant, and Equipment
NSF properties are categorized as follows: Construction in Progress, Real Property, Equipment (PP&E) and Software in Development. NSF-owned
properties are both internal and external to the organization. Currently, NSF has a legacy property management system. NSF has approximately
$379 million of PP&E in Antarctica that is managed by a contractor.

Grants Financial Management
One of the key successes to NSF’s long standing tradition of strong financial management is the integration that exists between the grants
management, grant financial management and financial processes. Data is passed between grants management and the financial system.

FAS was customized to support NSF’s grants management process and contains functionality specifically designed to support the award and
administration of grants. One example of this customization is the integration with other NSF systems that allows grantees to check available
funds in FAS in real-time through FastLane. As grants management is integral to the mission of the Foundation, over the years a considerable
amount of time and money has been invested to integrate the grants management systems with FAS and other administrative support systems.

The grant financial requirements for commitment and obligation accounting are embedded in FAS and Fastlane. Payment requests (or cash drawdowns)
are initiated in Fastlane, processed through the FAS Post Server and entered on the payment file created by FAS. NSF grants are drawdown based
on the pooling methodology. Grantees make cash advance requests (at any time throughout the year) and submit expenditure reporting (at anytime
throughout the year, but required quarterly) using FastLane. Over 90% of NSF grantees request cash on a reimbursable basis for actual expenses
already incurred. NSF uses a cash pooling process to allow a grantee to request lump sum cash advances without specifying a particular award.
Within FAS, the Accounting Operations Branch (AOB) manages the recording of grant accruals in the general ledger and the appropriate financial
statement reporting for the transactions.

NSF grantees report grant expenses to NSF at the grant level using the Federal Cash Transactions Report (FCTR) or the Federal Financial Report
(FFR). FAS creates the to-date grantee financial data to populate the information on the FCTR or the FFR reports in Fastlane, or Research.Gov in
the future. Grantees then access the reports, enter their expenditure data and finalize the report. FAS also runs a procedure to post grantee
reported expenditures from the grant level to the amendment and/or funding site level using a modified FIFO methodology. Many of the grant
financial processes are not supported by the FSIO certified software applications, therefore developing a strategy for addressing these
processes will be critical to the success of the project.

Another key factor to the future financial system is NSF is one of the Grants Management Line of Business (GMLoB) Consortia leads. Established
under the Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act (P.L. 106-107), GMLoB’s goals are to increase effectiveness and performance of
financial assistance programs; to simplify Federal financial assistance and application requirements; to improve delivery of services to the
public; and to enhance coordination of those responsible for providing grants services.

Acquisition
NSF currently uses the Automated Acquisition Management System (AAMS) (ProTrac/ProDoc) by Distributed Solutions, Inc. for acquisition.  AAMS is
a Commercial off-the-shelf system recently deployed to provide a uniform tool to support acquisition processing.  The system is not integrated
to the FAS financial system to provide commitment and obligation accounting.

NSF currently uses the JP Morgan Purchase Card solution for acquiring purchases at or below the micro-purchase threshold, as appropriate. The
charges are paid through the Treasury Secure Payment System and the information is entered into FAS.

Reporting
NSF’s accounting and financial systems staff created customized desktop solutions using Microsoft Access with the ability to produce its
financial statements including the Closing Package statements, generate automated closing entries, produce the SGL Tie points reports, other
reports to assist in reconciling account balances, and to create journal vouchers.

NSF’s Enterprise Information System (EIS), the FAS and the Report.web reporting system that provides financial, budgetary, awards and
performance information (including PART) is accessible in multiple formats at every workstation on a 24/7, real-time basis. EIS reflects data
extracted from NSF systems including FastLane, eJacket, the Award system, Proposal, PI, Meeting, Budget & Reviewer System (PARS), and FAS. EIS
also provides business information such as dwell time, funding rates, reviewer statistics, and financial data. Managers use this information to
make decisions regarding NSF budget priorities and business processes. NSF’s Statement of Net Cost uses the FAS to report the full cost of each
strategic goal.

Future NSF Environment
Most of NSF systems, including FAS, FastLane, eJacket and EIS are hosted in a data center located at NSF in Arlington, VA. NSF is transitioning
services and systems to offsite locations. For example, as part of government-wide initiatives, the Department of Interior provides offsite
payroll services for NSF, and the Office of Personnel Management provides offsite training services for NSF. In addition, NSF is piloting a new
hosting model where some of NSF systems are located in offsite facilities. Research.gov, a Federal web portal led by NSF with a vision to
centralize customer service for the research community while streamlining and standardizing business processes among partnering federal
agencies, is hosted at a facility in Ashburn, VA. Services and/or systems associated with the modernization of NSF’s financial management system
will be hosted external to NSF’s onsite data center, and will need to interface with systems and services located in disparate locations.

In addition to transitioning from an onsite to an offsite hosting model, NSF is also transitioning its technology platform.  The new technology
platform uses (1) an Oracle Database Management System, (2) various BEA products including their WebLogic Server, WebLogic Portal, AquaLogic
Service Bus and AquaLogic Business Process Management (BPM) solution, (3) various content management software products from Interwoven, and (4)
select products from EMC Documentum. All new NSF systems, including those that will need to share services and data with NSF’s financial
management system, will use a technology platform based on these products.

   Request for Information: Additional Detailed Questions

In addition to the market research data requested in Section 5 Project Scope and Approach, NSF requests responses to the detailed questions
below to obtain a better understanding of the available alternatives to meet NSF specific requirements.


1 Compliance with Federal Standards

   1. Have the property capabilities in the system been reviewed against the latest FSIO Property Management System Requirements - October 2000
      available on the FSIO website? If so, are the results for mandatory and value add requirements available?  Please provide a copy.
      http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/docs_systemrequirements.shtml

   2. Have the grants financial capabilities in the system been reviewed against the latest FSIO Grants Financial System Requirements - June 2002
      available on the FSIO website?  If so, are the results for mandatory and value add requirements available?  Please provide a copy.
      http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/docs_systemrequirements.shtml

   3. Have the procurement capabilities in the system been reviewed against the latest FSIO Acquisition Financial System Requirements - June 2002
      and Addendum to Core Financial System Requirements - March 2006 available on the FSIO website?  If so, are the results for mandatory and
      value add requirements available?  Please provide a copy.  http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/docs_systemrequirements.shtml

   4. The COTS system must be certified against Core Financial Systems Requirements - January 2006 FSIO requirements and include capabilities to
      meet the mandatory requirements.  Are the results for value add requirements available?  Please provide a copy.
      http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/docs_systemrequirements.shtml

   5. Do you plan to incorporate FSIO certified configurations? What is the timeline for deploying the FSIO certified configurations?

   6. Do you plan to incorporate Common Government Account Classification (CGAC) required values? What is the timeline for deploying the CGAC
      configurations

   7. FMLoB Federal Shared Service Provider Due Diligence Checklist (Optional for commercial entities) Please provide the most up-to-date FMLoB
      Due Diligence Checklist for your organization.  The checklist can be downloaded at
      http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/fmlob_migrationplanning.shtml


2 Property, Plant & Equipment (PP&E)

   1. NSF property includes assets acquired and controlled by third parties.  Does the system include the ability to import and maintain assets
      from third party systems?  Describe the complexity of importing assets from third party systems. Can the system provide reports and query
      capability with a summery of transactions?

   2. Does the system include the ability to acquire, maintain, transfer, and dispose of personal and real property?  Describe the processes
      including automated and manual steps.  Are the appropriate accounting entries automatically generated within the system?

   3. What type of inventory tracking functionality does the system provide? Can it generate bar code labels and interface to a scanner?

   4. How does the system support capturing acquisition data and/or initiate the capture of information at the point of obligation of funds?  Are
      notifications available to support property tracking for acquired assets at the time of obligation?

   5. Does the PP&E system integrate with the purchase card provider system?  Describe notifications available to support property tracking for
      acquired assets using the purchase card.

   6. Does the PP&E system support Bar Coding for property and locations at the time of receipt and during placement into facility locations?
      Are third party tools required to support this process?  What are the third party tools?

   7. Describe how the PP&E system supports Radio Frequency Identification (RFID) to manage and track assets.  Are third party tools required to
      support this process?  What are the third party tools?

   8. Describe how the PP&E system support disposal of assets through GSA.  Is the disposal process integrated to GSA or manual?

   9. Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for integrating the financial system with the PP&E system.


3 Grants Financials Management

   1. Has the system been integrated to a grants line of business or third party provider of solicitation and award of grants capabilities?  If
      so, is the integration in real time, near real time or batch?  What grant systems were integrated?  Describe the integration and supported
      processes.

   2. The pooling process allows grantees to request funding from multiple agreements in a single request.  Does the financial system support
      pooling by allowing pooled advance payments that are allocated to agreements based on specific algorythms?  Does the system reconcile and
      charge the actual agreement when the quarterly report is received? If the financial system does not support pooling, how does it process
      payment requests?

   3. Does the system generate and handle Federal Financial Reports (FFR) utilized for grant reporting? If so please explain the capabilities and
      the interface for grantees to submit the FFR.

   4. How robust are the FSIO compliant software in the area of grants financials? Please provide details. If not robust, are there any third-
      party software packages NSF should look at to integrate with the core financials?

   5. Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for integrating the financial system with the grants management system and executing the
      grant financial processes.


4 Acquisition Management

   1. Provide the system's acquisition reporting capability to support management, end users, administrators, and auditors.

   2. Is the acquisition system compliant with government-wide E-Gov initiatives (Integrated Acquisition Environment)?  Provide details.

   3. Does the acquisition system automate the generation of regulatory procurement-related documents and forms (including simplified
      acquisitions, large contracts, delivery order and task order awards and modifications) utilizing applicable procurement regulations (e.g.
      FAR and agency FAR supplement)?

   4. NSF currently uses the Automated Acquisition Management System (AAMS) (ProTrac/ProDoc) by Distributed Solutions, Inc. for acquisition.
      Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for integrating the financial system with AAMS or if recommended, another acquisition
      system.

   5. Does the system include integration to the Federal Procurement Card providers (NSF uses JP Morgan Chase)?  What functionality is available
      to support of validation and approval of disbursement?  Are third party tools required to support this process?  What are the third party
      tools?


5 Interagency Agreements

   1. Does the system provide the capability to record and manage interagency agreements (IPAC)? If yes, describe.

   2. Does the system provide an automated process to track costs, bill, collect (IPAC) and report on reimbursable agreements for NSF? Describe
      the supported processes.

   3. Does the system provide an automated process to record interagency agreement payments (IPAC) from NSF? Describe the supported processes.

   4. Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for managing interagency agreements.


6 Budget Formulation and Execution

   1. Does the budget system/module have the functionality to establish and maintain strategic plans, including resource data, planned
      performance, and actual performance? If yes, please list the capabilities

   2. Does the budget system/module connect to external systems such as the core financial system and the payroll system, etc.?

   3. Does the budget system/module have the ability to link funding amounts and transactions (obligations) to performance goals? If yes, please
      list the capabilities.

   4. Does the budget system/module have the ability to categorize the same funding amount multiple ways (e.g. a single dollar may contribute to
      both an add and a non-add)? If yes, please list the capabilities.

   5. Have the budgeting capabilities in the system been reviewed against the decision matrix developed by the interagency Budget Formulation and
      Execution Line of Business?  If so, what are the results available?


7 Financial Management

   1. What process is used to retire general ledger data from cancelled accounts?  Where is GL data that is retired from production stored?  Can
      it be easily accessed for data mining purposes?

   2. NSF uses the Federal Personnel and Payroll System (FPPS). Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for interfacing with FPPS.

   3. Describe the payment management capabilities offered by the system.

   4. What kind of tools does the system offer to reconcile with the Treasury GOALS II system? Describe the supported processes.


8 Reporting

   1. What tools are available for reporting from the system for end users and advanced users?  Do the tools include Federal specific data and
      reporting capabilities? Describe the tools and related capabilities.

   2. Does the system have an enterprise information system component that could be used by management and non-financial users?

   3. Does the system provide OLAP reporting against the entire base transaction set?  If yes, does the OLAP access follow the standard API and
      support standard reporting tools: [specifically Excel, Tableau etc..]?  If access via the standard OLAP API is not provided is there any
      “Cube” based multi-dimensional reporting capability?

   4. How has the system been implemented in conjunction with a third-party data warehouses?  Has the replication been real time, near real time
      or batch? Describe the data warehouses and supported processes.

   5. Does the system include reports developed specifically for Federal customers? Describe the reports.

   6. In the past, the certified FSIO COTS solutions did not easily support the generation of financial statements.  A third party reporting tool
      was necessary to generate financial statements.  How have the COTS solutions evolved in this area?  If they have not, what are the
      recommended third party tools to generate financial statements and to produce ad hoc financial reports and financial queries?

   7. Are all the federally mandated reported generated directly from the financial system? If no, describe the process.


9 Vendor Management

   1. NSF uses two vendor data systems, the government-wide database known as Central Contractor Registration (CCR), and the Institution Database
      (NSF specific).  Describe approaches for interfacing these two systems with the financial system.


10 Internal Controls

   1. What integrated or third party tool is available to support Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) within the system? How does it integrate
      with existing e-authentication or LDAP models in use at other agencies?

   2. How does the system and tools support OMB Circular A-123, Appendix A testing and reporting?

   3. Do you have standard configurations for the applications which you recommend?  What options are available to the agency? What are you doing
      to address or participate in FSIO's initiative to standardize configurations?

   5. Provide possible approaches and/or best practices for integrating GRC functionality with the financial system.


11 Interfaces

   1. What interfaces to other eGov initiatives have you developed and deployed? Describe the interfaces and supported processes.

   2. What tools, protocols and other methodologies do you suggest for the development of interfaces? Describe each including the benefits and
      limitations.


12 Technical

   1. Does the hosting solution allow for customer specific application instances or are they shared? What is the cost differential for each
      option?  What are the benefits and limitations of each option?

   2. Describe the release process in a shared environment and a stand alone environment. What is the release process for break fix, enhancements
      and patches into the environment? How are major upgrades deployed into each type of environment? What is the customer participation for
      break fix, enhancements, patches and major upgrades?

   3. What is the release process for upgrades to the technology stack and applications? What are the impacts of upgrades on the customer? Are
      there any costs associated with upgrades?

   4. Is there customer involvement in testing? How is User Acceptance testing and Integration testing handled?

   5. Does the system provide advanced users direct SQL access to production data or replicated data in near real time?

   6. What process is used to retire data from cancelled accounts? Where is data that is retired from production stored? Can it be easily
      accessed for data mining purposes?

   7. What connection mechanisms and protocols are used to connect users and systems from customers to the system?

   8. What specific security requirements must be met to connect to the system for the users and interfaces?

   9. Describe how the system provides security management of users, roles, and permissions?

  10. What type of redundancy is used for the infrastructure, hardware, data, etc?

  11. What monitoring capabilities at the infrastructure level are used and how would the end user be notified of pertinent events?


13 Standard Size

   1. Please indicate if your company is a HubZone, Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business, Small Business, or other than Small Business.
      NSF anticipates that the North American Industry Classification Systems (NAICS) Code for any procurement resulting from this RFI is 541512.


14 Contract Type and Performance Based Considerations

   1. Please provide the contract type(s) you have performed under for the same or similar services as those described in this RFI. Please be
      concise and limit your response to this question to one page.


15 Other

   1. Are there other best practices/approaches or subject areas that we did not address in the questions above that you would like to describe?

   Request for Information: Past Experience


1 Experience Implementing Financial Systems

List the recent U.S. Government clients where your organization has played a role in implementing FSIO (or JFMIP) compliant financial management
systems. Provide a short description of the work performed and the interfaces that were developed (i.e.:  interface with CCR, payroll system)
and implemented with the solution.  Also please provide the government point of contact information.


   Submission Instructions


1 Instructions for the Submission of Responses

Please limit submissions to seventy-five (75) pages. This page limit does not include the cover page, table of contents, FSIO System
Requirements in section 7.1, FSIO Due Diligence Checklist, and Appendix C - Costing Estimates. In addition, include a cover letter, not to
exceed two pages, that provides your organization’s address, and at least two points of contact. The font size for body text must be 10 point or
larger. Text in diagrams or other graphics may be smaller than 10 point, as appropriate. All margins must be 1 inch or larger. At a minimum,
your organization’s name and a page number should appear in the header or footer of all pages that constitute the body of your response.

Number your responses to match the question number. To maximize the space for your response, do not repeat the question as part of your
response.

Clearly identify all proprietary information contained in your response.

Responses must be submitted in Microsoft Word 2000 or 2003 or PDF. Only electronic submissions via email will be accepted; oral responses,
hardcopy responses, and electronic responses provided on physical media are not acceptable. Responses must be submitted via email to Ms. Kay
Marie Rison, Contracts Specialist, at mrison@nsf.gov, no later than 5: 00 PM, EST, April 10, 2009.


2 Instructions for the Submission of Questions

Questions must be submitted in Microsoft Word 2000 or 2003 or PDF.  Only electronic submissions via email will be accepted.  Questions must be
submitted via email to Ms. Kay Marie Rison, Contracts Specialist, at mrison@nsf.gov, no later than 5: 00 PM, EST, March 26, 2009.



-----------------------
[1] See http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/fmlob_migrationplanning.shtml
[2] See http://www.fsio.gov/fsio/fsiodata/fmlob_migrationplanning.shtml
[3] See http://www.acquisition.gov/far/index.html.

