<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FNAMA-10-Q-0076.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FNAMA-10-Q-0076.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION/CONTRACT/ORDER FOR COMMERCIAL ITEM
OFFEROR TO COMPLETE BLOCKS 12, 17, 23, 24, & 30
2. CONTRACT NO. 3. AWARD/ EFFECTIVE DATE 4. ORDER NUMBER

1. REQUISITION NUMBER

PAGE

OF

NAR-10-NH-0111
5. SOLICITATION NUMBER

1 NAMA-10-Q-0076

4
6. SOLICITATION ISSUE DATE

08/10/2010

7.

FOR SOLICITATION INFORMATION CALL:

a. NAME

b. TELEPHONE NUMBER

(No collect calls)

8. OFFER DUE DATE/LOCAL TIME

DEBRA GRISHAM
CODE 10. THIS ACQUISITION IS NAR-NAA-DGRISHAM

08/24/2010 1500 ET
X UNRESTRICTED OR
SET ASIDE: SMALL BUSINESS % FOR: EMERGING SMALL BUSINESS SOLE SOURCE

9. ISSUED BY

National Archives and Records Administration (NAA) 8601 Adelphi Rd Rm 3340 Attn: Debra Grisham 301-837-0446 College Park MD 20740-6001
11. DELIVERY FOR FOB DESTINATION UNLESS BLOCK IS MARKED SEE SCHEDULE 15. DELIVER TO CODE 12. DISCOUNT TERMS

NAICS:

518210

HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS SERVICE-DISABLED VETERANOWNED SMALL BUSINESS 13b. RATING

SIZE STANDARD:

$25.00
13a. THIS CONTRACT IS A RATED ORDER UNDER DPAS (15 CFR 700) 16. ADMINISTERED BY

8(A)

14. METHOD OF SOLICITATION

X RFQ

IFB CODE

RFP

NAR-NAA

National Archives and Records Admin 8601 Adelphi Rd Rm 3340 College Park MD 20740

17a. CONTRACTOR/ OFFEROR

CODE

FACILITY CODE

18a. PAYMENT WILL BE MADE BY

CODE

TELEPHONE NO. 17b. CHECK IF REMITTANCE IS DIFFERENT AND PUT SUCH ADDRESS IN OFFER 19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 18b. SUBMIT INVOICES TO ADDRESS SHOWN IN BLOCK 18a UNLESS BLOCK BELOW IS CHECKED SEE ADDENDUM 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE 24. AMOUNT

Configuration and hosting of the Office of Government Information Services Access System (OAS) in accordance with the Performance Work Statement (PWS) dated July 12, 2010. Period of Performance: 09/20/2010 to 09/19/2015 Base Year - 09/20/2010 - 09/19/2011 0001 Base Year - Fixed price - Configuration and Installation of the OAS, in accordance with PWS Continued ...
(Use Reverse and/or Attach Additional Sheets as Necessary)
25. ACCOUNTING AND APPROPRIATION DATA X 27a. SOLICITATION INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-1, 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-3 AND 52.212-5 ARE ATTACHED. 27b. CONTRACT/PURCHASE ORDER INCORPORATES BY REFERENCE FAR 52.212-4. FAR 52.212-5 IS ATTACHED. 28. CONTRACTOR IS REQUIRED TO SIGN THIS DOCUMENT AND RETURN COPIES TO ISSUING OFFICE. CONTRACTOR AGREES TO FURNISH AND DELIVER ALL ITEMS SET FORTH OR OTHERWISE IDENTIFIED ABOVE AND ON ANY ADDITIONAL SHEETS SUBJECT TO THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SPECIFIED HEREIN.
30a. SIGNATURE OF OFFEROR/CONTRACTOR

26. TOTAL AWARD AMOUNT (For Govt. Use Only)

ADDENDA

X ARE ARE

ARE NOT ATTACHED. ARE NOT ATTACHED. OFFER

ADDENDA

29. AWARD OF CONTRACT REF.

DATED . YOUR OFFER ON SOLICITATION (BLOCK 5), INCLUDING ANY ADDITIONS OR CHANGES WHICH ARE SET FORTH HEREIN, IS ACCEPTED AS TO ITEMS:
31a. UNITED STATES OF AMERICA (SIGNATURE OF CONTRACTING OFFICER)

30b. NAME AND TITLE OF SIGNER (Type or print)

30c. DATE SIGNED

31b. NAME OF CONTRACTING OFFICER (Type or print)

31c. DATE SIGNED

ALLEN R. EDGAR
AUTHORIZED FOR LOCAL REPRODUCTION PREVIOUS EDITION IS NOT USABLE
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) Prescribed by GSA - FAR (48 CFR) 53.212

2 of
19. ITEM NO. 20. SCHEDULE OF SUPPLIES/SERVICES 21. QUANTITY 22. UNIT 23. UNIT PRICE

4
24. AMOUNT

Para. 4.1 and 4.2 0002 Base Year - Option Item - Fixed Price - Perform second data migration in accordance with PWS Para. 4.2.5 (Option Line Item) 0003 Base Year - Fixed price - Train NARA OGIS Staff in accordance with PWS Para. 4.4 0004 Base Year - Fixed price - Maintenance and Support in accordance with PWS Para. 4.5 0005 Base Year - Fixed price - Data Deliverables in accordance with PWS Para. 7 (Not Separately Priced) 0006 Base Year - Reserved 1 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein are not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) 0007 Base Year - Reserved 2 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein are not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Continued ...
32a. QUANTITY IN COLUMN 21 HAS BEEN RECEIVED INSPECTED ACCEPTED, AND CONFORMS TO THE CONTRACT, EXCEPT AS NOTED: 32c. DATE 32d. PRINTED NAME AND TITLE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32b. SIGNATURE OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32e. MAILING ADDRESS OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32f. TELEPHONE NUMBER OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

32g. E-MAIL OF AUTHORIZED GOVERNMENT REPRESENTATIVE

33. SHIP NUMBER

34. VOUCHER NUMBER

35. AMOUNT VERIFIED CORRECT FOR

36. PAYMENT COMPLETE PARTIAL FINAL

37. CHECK NUMBER

PARTIAL

FINAL 39. S/R VOUCHER NUMBER 40. PAID BY

38. S/R ACCOUNT NUMBER

41a. I CERTIFY THIS ACCOUNT IS CORRECT AND PROPER FOR PAYMENT 41b. SIGNATURE AND TITLE OF CERTIFYING OFFICER 41c. DATE

42a. RECEIVED BY (Print)

42b. RECEIVED AT (Location) 42c. DATE REC'D (YY/MM/DD) 42d. TOTAL CONTAINERS
STANDARD FORM 1449 (REV. 3/2005) BACK

CONTINUATION SHEET
NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

NAMA-10-Q-0076

3

4

ITEM NO.

(A)

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

(B)

QUANTITY

(C)

(D)

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

(E)

AMOUNT

(F)

Option Year 1 - 09/20/2011 - 09/19/2012 0008 Option Year 1 Fixed price - Maintenance and Support in accordance with PWS Para. 4.5 (Option Line Item) Option Year 1 - Reserved 1 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Option Year 1 - Reserved 2 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Option Year 2 - 09/20/2012 - 09/19/2013 0011 Option Year 2 Fixed price - Maintenance and Support in accordance with PWS Para. 4.5 (Option Line Item) Option Year 2 - Reserved 1 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Option Year 2 - Reserved 2 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Option Year 3 - 09/20/2013 - 09/19/2014 0014 Option Year 3 Fixed price - Maintenance and Support in accordance with PWS Para. 4.5 (Option Line Item) Option Year 3 - Reserved 1 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Continued ...

0009

0010

0012

0013

0015

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

CONTINUATION SHEET
NAME OF OFFEROR OR CONTRACTOR

REFERENCE NO. OF DOCUMENT BEING CONTINUED

PAGE

OF

NAMA-10-Q-0076

4

4

ITEM NO.

(A)

SUPPLIES/SERVICES

(B)

QUANTITY

(C)

(D)

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

(E)

AMOUNT

(F)

0016

Option Year 3 - Reserved 2 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Option Year 4 - 09/20/2014 - 09/19/2015

0017

Option Year 4 Fixed price - Maintenance and Support in accordance with PWS Para. 4.5 (Option Line Item) Option Year 4 - Reserved 1 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item) Option Year 4 - Reserved 2 (Note: the reserved CLINs herein not representative of work that NARA anticipates; however, they may be exercised during the period of performance) (Option Line Item)

0018

0019

NSN 7540-01-152-8067

OPTIONAL FORM 336 (4-86) Sponsored by GSA FAR (48 CFR) 53.110

REQUEST FOR QUOTATION

FOR

OFFICE OF GOVERNMENT INFORMATION SERVICES ACCESS SYSTEM (OAS)







ATTACHMENT 1 – PERFORMANCE  STATEMENT (PWS)



For

OGIS Access System 

for the

National Archives and Records Administration 

Office of Government Information Services 



July 12, 2010




Table of Contents





Background

The National Archives and Records Administration’s Office of Government Information Services (OGIS), established under the OPEN Government Act of 2007 and codified at 5 U.S.C. 552(h), is tasked to review Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) activities government-wide and to help resolve dispute cases between the public and federal agencies. A new system, the OGIS Access System (OAS), is needed by the OGIS to support:

Case Management Activities – These activities are foundational to OGIS business processes and enable the OGIS staff to: (a) record, track, and manage all information about cases; (b) collect, manage, and secure documentation associated with cases; (c) define, track, and manage workflow; (d) track staff time and effort; (e) generate and manage correspondence; (f) generate management metrics and reports; and (g) secure all Personally Identifying Information (PII) 

Stakeholder Collaboration Activities – These activities support collaboration on case matters and issues.  Two types of collaboration activities are required: (a) ad hoc collaboration that can be supported by general purpose web collaboration tools such as WIKIs, BLOGs, discussions boards, and teleconferencing; and (b) formalized integrated collaborative web meeting service that is managed by case workers, restricted to specific stakeholders, and provides recorded transcripts of collaboration activities. 

Public Communication Activities – These activities support OGIS communication with public stakeholders, mostly by publishing web accessible information.  The OAS will provide a self-service web portal that is accessible for public use and can receive requests from the general public for OGIS assistance.  The web portal will provide capabilities such as: a knowledge base to help guide the public to request OGIS for assistance, training, web/video conferences, Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs), outside facing BLOGs, case status, contact information, relevant publications, and links to other relevant web sites to a web portal.



Currently, the OGIS staff uses manual methods to manage its FOIA dispute cases with Microsoft Office applications (e.g. Word, Excel and Access).  

Objective

This Performance Work Statement (PWS) describes the services required of the Contractor to provide the OAS.



The NARA OGIS office requires a Contractor-hosted, web-based solution that provides support for: Case Management, Stakeholder Collaboration Activities and Public Communications Activities.



The OAS will allow the OGIS office to establish an online presence via a web portal to the public that represents a community focus.  Moreover, OAS will provide case management capabilities which shall improve the efficiency of the current OGIS business processes by utilizing customized rules for workflow, automated alerts, and correspondence generation. 

Scope of work

The Contractor shall provide a perpetual-licensed Contractor-hosted Commercial-Off-the-Shelf (COTS) solution and the personnel and resources to support this PWS for the OAS project.  All Contractor personnel working this project shall hold a minimum of a Public Trust Position.  The following are some of the contract services requested by NARA:  



Provide a Contractor-hosted COTS solution satisfying the requirements detailed in this PWS and in Appendix A: System Requirements.

Sponsor a kickoff meeting and present a Project Management Plan (PMP).

Lead status reviews.

Complete a requirements analysis.

Provide configuration recommendations and a configuration plan for OAS and Web Portal.

Configure and deploy the OAS and Web Portal.

Integrate with an online collaboration tool to provide online collaboration services.

Integrate with NARA’s Novell email service for data ingest and connectivity.

Perform system tests.

Migrate existing OGIS case data into the OAS.

Perform data migration tests.

Provide end user and application administrator training.

Provide operations and maintenance support.

Obtain Government approval for all deliverables.



The OAS shall comply with the standards and guidelines identified in  of this PWS.

Detailed Task Requirements

The following section describes the tasks required for this project.

System Analysis and Configuration Plan

Perform Requirements Analysis

The Contractor shall perform an analysis of the OAS system requirements.  As a part of the analysis, the Contractor shall perform the following tasks:

Analyze the System Requirements provided in this PWS.

Conduct a series of working interview sessions with OGIS staff.

Analyze the OGIS business process and associated workflows.

Offer recommendations for improvements to the workflows as it relates to the capabilities of the Contractor product.

Recommendations shall include but are not limited to workflow configurations, user role configurations, hierarchy configurations, event business rule configurations, screen configurations, alert configurations, and drop down menu configurations.



The Contractor shall provide an Analysis Report (Deliverable 1) to document the analysis, the associated findings, and their recommendations.  The recommendations will help to direct OGIS as to how to best utilize those capabilities in the OAS.  The Contractor shall use the analysis and resulting recommendations to support the system configuration plan for the OAS.

System Configuration Plan

Once the analysis is completed and recommendations are accepted and approved by NARA, the Contractor shall develop a System Configuration Plan (Deliverable 2).  The plan shall detail how the requirements of this PWS will be met.  The plan shall include details to address the following:

Logical and Physical Architecture

Logical and Physical Data Models

User Account Roles/Types and Access Privileges

Business Workflow Models

Self-service Web Portal and Knowledge Base

Screenshots/Mockups for standard Reports and Form Letters

Integration with a online collaboration tool to provide online collaboration service application

Integration with NARA’s Novell email system for correspondence

System Configuration Details

Functional Test Plan 

Data Migration Plan

Data Migration Test Plan

Transition to Operations Plan

Deploy the OAS

Upon NARA approval and acceptance of the OAS System Configuration Plan, the Contractor shall install and set up the hardware, software and database at the Contractor hosting site.  It is anticipated that this system will require no software installations on NARA-owned equipment.

Configure OAS

The Contractor shall perform configurations for:

Data Schema and Architecture in database

User Accounts and Access Privileges

Business Workflow Engine

Screen Layouts and associated data fields, tabs, links etc. for the OAS and Web Portal

Standard Reports and Form Letters

Search and Ad Hoc Report options

Integration with an online collaboration service application and NARA’s Novell email service for ingestion of data

Alerts and Notifications

Demonstrate the OAS

During configuration of the OAS, the Contractor shall provide monthly demonstrations to show the OAS’s capabilities and functionalities configured to date.  Demonstrations shall be conducted during the monthly status reviews and continue until the OAS deployment is completed.

Perform Functional Testing

The Contractor shall test the OAS with the online collaboration service and NARA’s Novell email service in accordance with the approved test plan.  The test shall verify that the OAS can successfully request, receive, and ingest data from the online collaboration service and NARA’s Novell email into the OAS.



The Contractor shall perform functional testing of the OAS in accordance with the approved test plan.  Through testing the Contractor shall verify that all functional requirements stated in this PWS are satisfied.  OGIS is currently able to manage FOIA case mediation manually utilizing Microsoft Office applications. The Contractor shall ensure no functionality loss in the implementation of the OAS.

Test Report

The Contractor shall provide a Test Report (Deliverable 3) that details the results of functional testing indicating that the OAS meets the system requirements as well as the integration with an online collaboration service and NARA’s Novell email service.  The test results shall map directly to the Contractor test plans to show how requirements are addressed.

Migrate Data and Test Data Migration

Two weeks prior to system delivery, the Contractor shall migrate all NARA OGIS Office data into the OAS.  Data will be provided by OGIS and may be in, but not limited to the following formats: Access Database file, Microsoft Excel spreadsheets, Microsoft Word Documents, and other NARA-scanned files.



The Contractor shall perform data migration testing in accordance with the Data Migration Test Plan to verify that no data has been lost and that all data is the same as the original pre-migrated data. 



If final OAS delivery occurs more than two weeks after data migration is completed, the Contractor shall perform another data migration to update the system with any changes and additions made between the time periods of the migrations.  If the interval between data migration and final OAS delivery exceeds two weeks for reasons beyond the Contractor’s control, NARA will exercise a Firm Fixed Price option CLIN to compensate the Contractor.

Transition to Operations

Upon completion of system installation, configuration, test and data migration, the Contractor shall implement their Transition to Operation (TTO) plan.  The Contractor shall work with NARA staff to ensure that all technical, functional and deliverable requirements of this contract are met.  TTO activities will include completion of testing, training, certification and accreditation, and user training.  At the conclusion of the execution of the TTO plan, the Contractor shall conduct a Production Readiness Review (Deliverable 4) to review the system and show that it is ready for operations.

Support Certification and Accreditation (C&A)

The system shall comply with the NARA security requirements found in .  In addition, the system shall follow FISMA guidance and meet OMB, NIST, and CNSS security requirements.  The Contractor shall support NARA’s Chief Information Security Office during OAS’ Certification and Accreditation process until the NARA Chief Information Officer has issued an accreditation decision granting authorization to operate.

Train NARA OGIS Staff 

All training shall be provided at the National Archives and Records Administration, College Park facility at 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, Maryland, 20740.

Develop User Training Documentation

The Contractor shall develop User Training Documentation (Deliverable 5) that will detail the full functionality and administration of the OAS.  The training documentation and associated training sessions shall be designed to help OGIS staff understand the system functionality and how to perform application administration functions.  The Contractor shall provide copies of all training materials used to the NARA.  Examples of training materials may include PowerPoint slides, student guides, and operator manuals.

User Training

The Contractor shall provide initial training as proposed for the OAS end-users. The initial training shall be provided for up to 10 total users.  Subsequent training of new end-users will be provided by NARA.

Application Administrator Training

The Contractor shall provide application administration training to OGIS designated personnel as proposed so that OGIS staff can administer the application.  The application administrator training shall be provided for up to five users.

Operational Maintenance and Support

Helpdesk Support

The Contractor shall provide telephone helpdesk support between the hours of 8am and 8pm (Eastern Standard Time), Monday through Friday.  When a call is made to the helpdesk, the Contractor shall log the report and initiate a case.  To the extent possible, the Contractor shall resolve the issue immediately over the phone.  For calls that require further investigation to resolve an issue, a case identifier shall be provided to the caller.  Anytime during investigation and upon caller request, the Contractor shall provide a status update of the incident investigation.  Upon resolution of a reported issue, the Contractor shall notify the initial caller via email and telephone.  Helpdesk cases shall be resolved within 24 hours of initial report.  Helpdesk support shall include the resolution of the following items:

User accounts/roles/permissions

Username/password resets

Basic system navigation inquiries

Basic system functionality inquiries

Reports of data error in the system

The Helpdesk response time requirement does not apply to system failure or system outages due to hardware, software or network failure.  In cases of system failure or system outage, the Contractor shall still take calls reporting outage/failure, initiate the case, and provide status feedback as requested.  The Contractor shall correct system failure and system outages per the uptime and availability requirements (reference Appendix A: System Requirements). 

Hardware and Software Operations and Operational Maintenance

The Contractor shall provide software and hardware operations and operational maintenance.  Maintenance support shall include the application of regular product upgrades and releases, bug fixes, and changes needed to stay compliant with federal regulations.  The Contractor shall fully test software patches and upgrades prior to installation on the production environment.  The Contractor shall ensure that their hosting facility meets the system availability, data backup, and Continuity of Operations (COOP) operational requirements detailed in .  The Contractor shall ensure that hardware remains in a healthy operational state.  As a hosted service, replacement of any software and hardware shall be the responsibility of the Contractor.

OAS Software and Data Ownership

Though the OAS and its associated data will be hosted at the Contractor site, NARA retains full ownership of the software and all system data.  Upon NARA request, but no more than twice annually the Contractor shall provide a full copy of the OAS system data.  The delivery of system data may be requested in either hard copy or soft copy formats.  The system data shall be provided to NARA within five business days of NARA issuing a request.

Project Management

Sponsor Kickoff Meeting

The Contractor shall sponsor and lead a Kickoff Meeting (Deliverable 6) within five business days of the effective date of the contract to prepare NARA and the Contractor for the work described in this PWS.

Project Management Plan

The Contractor shall identify their project management structure and the individuals involved with this project.  The Contractor shall develop a Project Management Plan (PMP) (Deliverable 7) that includes, at a minimum, plans for the contract deliverables as defined by this PWS, a work breakdown structures (WBS) with dependencies, tasks and their assignment to a Contractor or NARA resource, schedule and timeline for completion with a list of milestones and associated costs, description of the Contractor testing approach, and a plan for meeting the security control requirements.  The plan shall also detail how the Contractor will satisfy availability, uptime, and data recovery requirements.  The Contractor developed Project Management Plan shall align with the work described in the PWS.  



The Contractor shall provide updates to the PMP (Deliverable 8) as the contents of the document become outdated.  The COR must approve all changes to the PMP.  Upon NARA acceptance of the Project Management Plan and schedule, the Contractor can proceed with project tasks.  

Conduct Monthly Status Meetings

The Contractor shall conduct monthly status meetings (Deliverable 9) to review deliverables, project risks and recommended mitigation, schedule, and decisions that required at a given stage of the project.  Once the project has entered deployment phase, the monthly product demonstrations will occur at this monthly status meeting.  The Contractor shall document the results of the meeting and provide minutes as part of this deliverable.

Project Manager

The Government has designated the Project Manager as a key personnel position.  A resume shall be submitted by the Contractor and approved by the Government prior to any personnel acting as Project Manager under the OAS project in accordance with the Terms and Conditions.  As a minimum, the resume shall include detailed employment history for the past 5 years, including Company and supervisor names and telephone number, copies of credentials and licenses, and other pertinent data.



Project Management responsibilities include directing, managing, and maintaining all OAS schedules, supervision, management, maintaining pertinent documents, serving as the central point of contact for contract issues and invoicing, and insuring efficiency of operations.  Additionally, the Project manager shall be responsible for the timely submission, accuracy and completeness of all reporting requirements and deliverables, meeting with Government personnel on the status of the OAS project, insuring project quality, and the management of all Government and Contractor issued/provided supplies, materials, and equipment.  The Project Manager shall also be responsible for insuring all work is accomplished in accordance with the terms and conditions of this order.



The Contractor’s Project Manager shall be available as needed to ensure the requirements of the contract are completed satisfactorily.  The Project Manager shall keep the COR informed on the status of all order issues and performance schedule, and insure that monthly reports are timely, accurate, complete, and provide the required information.

Designated Work Place

Work related to system analysis, configuration, testing, and data and infrastructure hosting shall be performed at the Contractor facility.  Meetings, demonstrations, and training shall be conducted at the National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, College Park, Maryland, 20740, unless otherwise approved by the COR.  Escort required access to NARA facilities will be provided on an as needed basis.

Government Furnished Equipment

As necessary for training or meeting purposes, the Government shall provide a presentation system with internet connectivity on NARA facilities.

Deliverables

Deliverables must be submitted to the COR for inspection, review and acceptance.  Formal acceptance occurs upon COR signature.  The deliverables become the property of the U.S. Government.  The government must provide comments, if any, on each deliverable within ten (10) workdays of receipt.  The Contractors must incorporate the Government’s comments within ten (10) workdays of the government’s comments.  In the event of rejection of any deliverable, the Contractors must be notified in writing by the Government of the specific reasons why delivery is unsatisfactory.  The Contractors must return a revised document within ten (10) workdays to the COR.



In the interest of reducing the use of paper,  requests the Contractor to refrain from submitting deliverables in hard copy, except when absolutely necessary.   lists the deliverables for this contract.

Table 1: List of Deliverables






Appendix A: System Requirements



In addition to the requirements stated in this PWS, the following table lists the system requirements of the OAS.





Additionally, the following tables list the Records Management requirements that apply to NARA systems.  Table 2 lists the Common Standard Requirements.

Table 2: NARA Common Standard Requirements (Set A)



The requirements in Table 3 apply to systems that provide the capability to CREATE or FILE data objects. 

Table 3: Requirements for CREATE or FILE data objects (Set B)

The requirements in Table 4 apply to systems that allow for the STORAGE of data objects. 

Table 4: Requirements for STORAGE of data objects (Set C)

The requirements in  apply to systems that allow authorized users to perform information management services, including organization, maintenance, and disposition activities. 

Table 5: Requirements for Authorized User Capabilities (Set D)






Appendix B: Applicable Standards and Guidelines



Software, application, and systems shall meet the following guidelines and standards where applicable:



a)         NARA 812: Enterprise Architecture dated May 28th, 2010 v5.6

The Enterprise Architecture (EA) process produces a set of work products (i.e., the EA) that document the strategies, plans, and guidelines by which NARA will design, develop or acquire as well as integrate, secure, deploy, use, and manage IT components and IT services in support of its business objectives.  The system shall comply with the guidelines set forth within the NARA EA document.



b)        NARA 804: IT Security Architecture dated May 28th, 2010 v5.6 with associated Methodologies.

The IT Security Architecture and Methodologies help to ensure the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of NARA's information assets.  The system shall meet all applicable Federal Laws (i.e. FISMA), Standards and Guidance to include but not limited to NIST SP 800-18, NIST SP 800-47, NIST SP 800-53, NIST FIPS 200, and OMB Circular A-130.



c)	FDCC/SCAP

Software which is designed to run on Windows Vista or XP desktops shall function without modification to the FDCC settings as published by NIST.



Software and hardware products which are designed to operate in environments other than the FDCC desktop shall have a standard configuration guide published on the NIST website, or the Contractor shall supply a recommended configuration guide for all configurable security settings.



d)	NARA Protection of PII And Keep Hard Drive



In accordance with NARA policy, NARA will take title to all electronic storage devices, including but not limited to hard drives that may contain Personally Identifiable Information (PII).  NARA will not allow the removal of any electronic storage device that may contain PII data from its facilities by a contractor, including individuals performing maintenance on equipment, devices or systems. This provision applies even in the event the equipment is leased. NARA will handle the destruction of this hardware internally.  This provision must flow down to all subcontracts, including those for maintenance.



If the Contractor comes into possession of an electronic storage device that may contain PII, the Contractor will immediately notify the Contracting Officer and return the electronic storage device to NARA.  Contractor will protect the confidentiality of the electronic storage device and will not access, disclose, release, disseminate, or publish any of the information on the electronic storage device.



e)	IP-v6 

All equipment that is specified or acquired under this contract shall be IP-v6 compliant.



Applicability:  Any acquisition for equipment that has a data network interface, or that uses Internet Protocol (IP) addresses.



f)	Section 508

All hardware and software that is specified or acquired under this contract shall be compliant with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act.



Applicability:  All IT acquisitions for: a) Software Applications and Operating Systems, b) Web-based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications, c) Telecommunications Products, d) Video and Multimedia Products, e) Self Contained, Closed Products, and f) Desktop and Portable Computers.






Appendix C: Reference Documents



NARA 804, Information Technology (IT) Systems Security

NARA 804

		

SUBJECT: Information Technology (IT) Systems Security



804.1	What is the purpose of this directive?



	a.	This directive establishes policy and guidance for securing all electronic information collected or maintained by or on behalf of the National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) and the electronic information systems used or operated by or on behalf of . This directive also defines the role of IT security in the context of overall enterprise architecture.



	b.	This directive also delineates the security management program structure, assigns responsibilities, and creates the foundation necessary to measure progress and compliance. The specific standards and procedures for implementation of NARA IT security policy are contained in the supplements to this directive.



804.2	Authorities

44 U.S.C. 2108; 5 U.S.C. 552, as amended; 5 U.S.C. 552a, as amended; E.O. 12958; 40 U.S.C. 1401 through 1503, Information Technology Management Reform Act (Clinger-Cohen Act of 1996); Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA) of 2002 (PL 107-347).  FISMA reinforces past legislation (the Computer Security Act of 1987, the Clinger-Cohen Act, and the Paperwork Reduction Act) requiring each agency to implement an IT systems security program.



804.3	What additional documents provide guidance for the security of ’s IT systems?



	a.	The NARA IT Security Architecture (SA) section of NARA’s Enterprise Architecture (EA), available on NARA@work under Information Technology, prescribes a level of security for NARA systems and provides guidance to system owners, Information System Security Officers (ISSO), and to all those who are responsible for the design, development, implementation, maintenance, and security of an information system.  The security architecture also prescribes the technological framework for ’s security program and identifies the controls that shape security policy.



	b.	The IT security supplements to this directive provide specific detailed implementation guidance for  systems that is to be used by ISSOs, system administrators, and all persons responsible for implementing and administrating  standard security settings on information systems.



	c.	NARA 805, Systems Development Lifecycle (SDLC), provides guidance and requirements, including those related to security, for project teams who are planning and implementing the development, evaluation, and maintenance of NARA's IT systems.



 	d.	 202,  Classified Information Security Program, provides guidance for those persons responsible for the protection and control of classified information.  Detailed implementation instructions for E.O. 12958 as amended are contained in  202’s supplement, NARA Classified Information Security Program Handbook.



804.4	What are some external directives that affect NARA’s information technology systems security program?

In addition to the legislation cited in par. 804.2,  is subject to Federal security requirements stated in Presidential Directives, mandates of oversight agencies, and standards, including:



	a.	Presidential Directives



		(1)	Presidential Decision Directive 67 (PDD-67), Enduring Constitutional Government and Continuity of Government Operations, 1998.



		(2)	Homeland Security Presidential Directive-7, (HSPD-7), Critical Infrastructure Identification, Prioritization, and Protection, 2003.  Requires each agency to develop a plan to protect its critical information infrastructure.



		(3)	HSPD-12, Policy for a Common Identification Standard for Federal Employees and Contractors, 2004.



	b.	OMB Issuances



		(1)	OMB A-130 - Office of Management and Budget Circular A-130, Appendix III – Security of Federal Automated Information Resources.  Guidance to all Federal agencies about the development and implementation of IT systems security programs.



		(2)	OMB memos - Office of Management and Budget Memos, especially M03-22, OMB Guidance for Implementing the Privacy Provisions of the E-Government Act of 2002, and M05-04, Policies for Federal Agency Public Websites.



	c.	Standards



		(1)	National Institute of Standards (NIST) Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) - Especially FIPS Publication 199, “Standards for Security Categorization of Federal Information and Information Systems”, February 2004; FIPS Publication 200, “Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems”, March 2006; and FIPS Publication 201, “Personal Identity Verification (PIV) of Federal Employees and Contractors”, March 2006.  The FIPS publications provide direction to all Federal agencies for categorizing, securing, and controlling access to Federal information and information systems.



		(2)	NIST SP 800 Series - NIST Special Publications as mandated by FIPS, especially NIST Special Publication 800-18 Rev 1, "Guide for Developing Security Plans for Federal Information Systems", February 2006; NIST Special Publication 800-53, “Recommended Security Controls for Federal Information Systems”, February 2005; and, NIST Special Publication 800-37, “Guide for the Security Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems”, May 2004.  The NIST Special Publications series provides direction to all Federal agencies for planning, developing, and approving security of Federal information systems.



	d.	Other



		(1)	Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) Issuances - CNSS issuances detail policy, direction, operational procedures, and guidance for the security of national security systems.



		(2)	DCID 6/3 - Director of Central Intelligence Directive 6/3, Protecting Sensitive Compartmented Information Within Information Systems.



804.5	To which systems does this directive apply?

This directive applies to all information systems used or operated by, or on behalf of, .



804.6	To whom does this directive apply?

This policy applies to all  employees, contractors, Foundation staff and Foundation-funded employees, interns, volunteers, detailees, and others who have access to NARANET and are authorized to use  information systems.



804.7	Definitions

All IT terms used in conjunction with this policy, the IT Security program, or the NARA IT Security Architecture are defined in the NARA Enterprise Architecture Glossary of Terms and Acronyms, available on NARA@work under Information Technology.





804.8	Responsibilities 

	a.	Chief Information Officer (CIO) is the senior agency official who directs a NARA-wide IT program to carry out the provisions of the Information Technology Management Reform Act of 1996 and the E-Government Act of 2002.  The CIO ensures that development and implementation of the NARA IT Security program and NARA IT security architecture conform to all  and other Federal standards, policies, and guidelines.  The CIO is the designated authorizing official (sometimes called Designated Accrediting Authority, or DAA) for agency-wide general support systems and is the co-authorizing official with other senior officials for selected agency information systems.  The CIO designates the senior agency information security officer.  The Assistant Archivist for Information Services (NH) is ’s CIO.



	b.	Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) is the senior agency information security officer responsible for the implementation of this directive and its policies.  The CISO directs the NARA IT Security Program with the mission and resources to assist in ensuring agency compliance with FISMA.  The CISO is the agency official responsible for carrying out the chief information officer responsibilities under FISMA.  The Director, IT Security Programs (NHI) serves as ’s CISO.



	c.	Chief Technology Officer (CTO) develops, implements, and manages the NARA IT security architecture as part of the NARA Enterprise Architecture (EA).



	d.	IT Security Staff (NHI) plans and manages the IT Security program in conformance with the IT Security Architecture. The staff assists in the development of the security architecture, assures the appropriate integration of security controls as part of the systems engineering process, and provides guidance and assistance to systems owners on matters of IT security.



	e.	System Developers are responsible for developing, documenting, and testing their systems, hardware, firmware, software, and operations in conformance to the IT Security Architecture as directed by the IT Security program.



	f.	System Administrators are responsible for implementing, operating, and monitoring all  systems in conformance to the IT Security Architecture as directed by the IT Security program.



	g.	Office Heads, Presidential Library Directors, and Regional Administrators are responsible for ensuring compliance with this policy within their respective offices.

	

	h.	System Owners are the officials who have primary responsibility for determining that an IT system meets the business requirements of , and who have responsibility for the procurement, development, and operation and maintenance of that system. System owners also evaluate the cost and benefits of system features, including the security costs of mitigating any vulnerabilities associated with the system. The System Owner may function as the Designated Representative of the designated authorizing official and may join the CIO as co-accreditor for selected agency systems. The System Owner also identifies or designates responsibility for two system functions: Data Owner (sometimes referred to as Information Owner) and the ISSO.



	i.	Designated Representative is the individual selected by an authorizing official to act on his or her behalf in coordinating and carrying out the necessary activities required to assure that security is integrated into and implemented throughout the life cycle of a system, to include during the security certification and accreditation process.  The DAA assigns responsibilities to the DAA Rep.



	j.	Data Owner (or Information Owner) has statutory or operational authority for information used by a system, and has responsibility for establishing the controls for its generation, collection, processing, dissemination, and disposal.



	k.	Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) has the responsibility to ensure that the appropriate operational security posture is maintained for an IT system or program. The ISSO assists in determining the security controls that are appropriate for the system, and provides information necessary to complete regular assessments of the system and the Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&M), which tracks response to internal and external audit findings.



	l.	Managers and supervisors throughout  ensure that their staff and authorized personnel are aware of and comply with this policy.



	m.	System Users include all  employees, contractors, Foundation Staff and Foundation-funded employees, interns, volunteers, detailees, and others who have access to NARANET and are authorized to use  information systems. Users are responsible for:



		(1)	Adhering to the terms of the  acceptable use policy,  802, Appropriate Use of NARA Office Equipment;



		(2)	Completing the annual security and awareness training provided by ; and



		(3)	Ensuring that passwords and other access credentials are not shared or made available to unauthorized persons.



804.9	Why does  have an IT Security Program?

 develops, documents, and implements an IT security program to provide oversight, monitoring, compliance assessments, and program management for the electronic information and information systems that support the operation and assets of , including those provided by or managed by another agency, contractor, or other source. These security activities comply with applicable Federal statutes, and must align with the standards specified in the NARA IT security architecture. 



804.10	What are the objectives of the  IT Security Program?

The security program is the means by which  plans for security, ensures that the appropriate officials are assigned security responsibility, provides appropriate training awareness to system users and authorizes system processing before operations and periodically afterward.   The components of ’s IT Security program:



	a.	Implement IT security standards that meet the requirements promulgated under 40 U.S.C. 11331.



	b.	Implement IT security standards and guidelines for NARA IT systems issued in accordance with law and as directed by the President.



	c.	Ensure that IT security management processes are integrated with agency strategic and operational planning processes.



	

	d.	Ensure that  provides for the security of information and IT systems that support the operations and assets under their control.



	e.	Provide IT security protections commensurate with the risks and magnitude of harm that may result from unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification, or destruction of:



		(1)	Electronic information collected or maintained by, or on behalf of, ; 

and



		(2)	Electronic information systems used or operated by, or on behalf of, .



	f.	Implement the NARA Training and Awareness program.



804.11	How is the IT Security Program integrated with the Systems Development Lifecycle (SDLC),  805?

 805, Systems Development Lifecycle, specifies the creation of a system security plan as an integrated component of system development and acquisition. The NARA IT security program assists system owners in meeting their obligations in identifying, processing, planning, and managing risks that could impact on  operations,  assets, or individuals through four security processes.



	a.	Certification, Accreditation (C&A), and Security Assessments determine the extent to which the security controls in each information system is implemented correctly, operating as intended, and producing the desired outcome with respect to meeting the security requirements for the system. The C&A process:



		(1)	Addresses specific existing or planned actions to correct deficiencies in the security controls and to reduce or eliminate known vulnerabilities in the information system; and



		(2)	Determines whether the remaining known vulnerabilities in the information system (after the implementation of an agreed-upon set of security controls) pose an acceptable level of risk to agency operations, agency assets, or individuals.



	b.	Risk Management is the process of identifying risk, assessing risk, and taking steps to reduce risk to an acceptable level. Risk management enables  to accomplish its mission by:



		(1)	Better securing the IT systems that store, process, or transmit  information;



		(2)	Enabling management to make well-informed risk management decisions to justify the expenditures that are part of an IT budget; and





		(3)	Assisting the CIO in authorizing (or accrediting) the IT systems on the basis of the supporting documentation resulting from the performance of risk assessments.



	c.	Continuous Monitoring activities involve ongoing assessment of IT security controls on a continual basis.  Continuous monitoring is achieved through the use of various tools that include, but are not limited to, intrusion detection systems, vulnerability scanners, log servers, and security information management tools.



	d.	The NARA Training and Awareness program ensures that all people involved in using and managing IT systems understand their roles and responsibilities related to NARA’s mission, understand the NARA’s IT security policy, procedures, and practices, and have adequate knowledge of the various management, operational, and technical controls required and available to protect the IT resources for which they are responsible.



804.12	How does the IT security program facilitate risk management?



	a.	The NARA IT security program ensures that security measures are adequate, or appropriate for the risk and magnitude of harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of information. The certification and accreditation process is the means by which the security program helps responsible agency officials to understand the risks and other factors that could negatively impact their mission goals. It also allows them to make informed judgments and investments that appropriately keep risks at acceptable levels.



	b.	The assessment of security risk and the development of system security plans are two important activities in ’s information security program that directly support the security certification and accreditation process, and are required by FISMA and OMB Circular A-130.



		(1)	The risk assessment influences the development of the security controls for particular information systems and generates much of the information needed for the associated system security plans.



		(2)	System security plans provide an overview of the information security requirements and describe the security controls in place or planned for meeting those requirements.



	c.	Risk management allows System Owners to balance the operational and economic costs of protective measures and increase mission capability by protecting the IT systems and data that support ’s mission. The principal goal of ’s risk management process is to protect the organization and its ability to perform its mission, not just its IT assets. 



804.13	How is this directive related to the   Architecture?

The NARA IT Security Architecture section of NARA’s Enterprise Architecture (EA) establishes a framework by which a level of security for all NARA information systems is prescribed through a comprehensive and authoritative set of documentation that is appropriate to the risk and magnitude of the harm resulting from the loss, misuse, unauthorized access to, or modification of the information stored or flowing through these systems. The documentation:



	a.	Categorizes and describes the major elements that comprise and affect ’s IT operating environment from an IT security perspective;



	b.	Defines ’s IT security goals, principles and policies;



	c.	Defines ’s IT risk profile;



	d.	Categorizes the security needs of ’s information assets;



	e.	Identifies and specifies ’s requirements for IT security management, IT security processes and IT security technologies across the agency; and



	f.	Provides architectural designs and engineering specifications for implementing and integrating IT security mechanisms.



804.14	Why are the supplements to this directive important?

Specific standards and procedures for implementation of NARA IT security policy are contained in the supplements, in the form of the Security Architecture Section of the Enterprise Architecture. The Security Architecture contains Methodology sections which provide detailed instructions on the implementation for each of the security control families identified in the Security Architecture.  The Security Architecture and Methodologies are found on the Enterprise Architecture page at:  http://www.nara-at-work.gov/information_technology/neitr/enterprise-architecture/index.html .  Below is a brief explanation of each Security Architecture component.



	a.	IT Security Architecture - The Security Architecture supports the IT security program by providing a comprehensive and authoritative set of documents. It is found at





	b.	IT Security Domain Model - This document identifies the major elements (and their relationships) that comprise and impact ’s IT environment from the perspective of IT security.  The fundamental purpose of the model is to provide a comprehensive perspective of IT security that helps identify and clarify ’s requirements for securing its IT operations, safeguarding its IT assets, and complying with all applicable Federal laws and directives.  It is found at 



	c.	IT Security Policies - NARA develops and maintains an overall NARA-wide IT security policy that explains:  the purpose and scope of NARA IT security policy; assignment of responsibilities for program implementation, as well as individual and other related offices’ responsibilities; and system compliance issues.  It is found it 



	d.	IT Security Requirements - The NARA IT Security Architecture documents security requirements that are mandated by FIPS 200, Minimum Security Requirements for Federal Information and Information Systems.  It is found at 



	e.	IT Security Mechanisms - Security mechanisms are the processes and technologies that must be implemented and applied to NARA’s IT operating environment to mitigate risks and protect NARA’s information assets.  This section identifies and describes the IT security mechanisms that will be selected to address the security controls and associated security requirements.  It is found at 



	f.	IT Security Specifications - Security Specifications define how the mechanisms are engineered and implemented.  They will detail standardized and reusable solutions for addressing ’s IT security requirements.  It is found at 



	g.	IT Security Engineering - Minimum IT security engineering for any information system is based on its categorization level for confidentiality, availability, and integrity needs.  It is found at 



	h.	IT Security Operations - Security Operations define the standard procedures for  processes.  These are based on the IT Infrastructure Library (ITIL) standards for service management and have been adopted as the initial baseline for operating processes at .  It is found at 



	i.	 IT Security Assessment - ’s IT Security Assessment is based on the following NIST publications:  NIST SP 800-53a, Guide for Assessing the Security Controls ion Federal Information Systems, and NIST Sp 800-37, Certification and Accreditation of Federal Information Systems.  It is found at 



	j.	IT Security Program Management - A comprehensive IT security program service can consist of many elements that will depend on the specific needs of  and the relative maturity of its IT security program.  ’s program is based on several publications from NIST and DCID.  It is found at 



	k.	IT Security C&A Methodology - The primary purpose of the security certification and accreditation process is to determine whether the security controls prescribed in NARA’s IT Security Architecture are adequately designed, adequately implemented, and whether compliance gaps exist.  These controls are assessed at all levels of the architecture.  It is found at 



804.15	How are records created by this directive maintained under the NARA records schedule? 

Records produced or maintained in the fulfillment of this directive are filed in accordance with the disposition instructions in NARA Records Schedule, item 830, Files Related to Maintaining the Security of Systems and Data.






NARA 812, Enterprise Architecture (EA).



NARA 812

		September 28, 2007



SUBJECT:  NARA Enterprise Architecture 



812.1	What is the purpose of this directive?  



	a.	This policy directive mandates that all Information Resources Management (IRM) and Information Assurance (IA) activities within all NARA Offices be represented in ’s Enterprise Architecture (EA) and that all Offices participate in ’s Enterprise Architecture (EA) process and conform to all standards and guidelines documented in ’s EA.



	b.	The practice of developing, implementing, and managing an Enterprise Architecture is recognized by both private and public organizations as critical to accomplishing organizational goals. Successful enterprises use an EA to provide a clear and comprehensive picture, in both business and technology terms, of how the organization operates today, how it plans to operate in the future, and how it plans to transition to its future state. As such, an EA is critical to leveraging Information Technology (IT) in support of business objectives, particularly large business transformation initiatives. When used in conjunction with other important IT management controls such as portfolio-based capital planning and investment control practices, an EA can greatly increase the likelihood that an organization’s business and IT environments will be effectively integrated so as to optimize the performance of the organization and the enterprise as a whole. An EA helps an organization to recognize and balance the trade-offs between: 

		(1)	satisfying immediate operational needs, and 

		(2)	positioning itself to achieve its longer-term strategic goals. 



812.2	Authority for this directive 

NARA is required to develop an EA to guide its Information Resources Management (IRM) activities as part of complying with Federal laws, policies, and directives. Section 5125 of Public Law 104-208 (Clinger-Cohen Act) assigns the Chief Information Officer (CIO) the responsibility to develop, maintain, and facilitate the implementation of “a sound and integrated information technology architecture for the executive agency.”  Subsequent to Clinger-Cohen, the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) was given broad EA oversight responsibilities by the E-Government Act of 2002. OMB has promulgated regulatory guidance for EA in Circulars 

A-130 and A-11, and in supplemental OMB Memorandums. 



What is  Architecture (EA)?


Enterprise Architecture is a joint business / Information Technology (IT) 

Management process that helps NARA plan the design, development, acquisition and implementation of IRM capabilities that are required by the agency. The EA process produces a set of work products (i.e., the EA) that document the strategies, plans, and guidelines by which NARA will design, develop or acquire as well as integrate, secure, deploy, use, and manage IT components and IT services in support of its business objectives. 

	b.	OMB’s Federal Enterprise Architecture Program promulgated the EA Assessment Framework that establishes EA as the overarching IRM process for Federal executive agencies. OMB expects agencies to integrate their Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC), Program Management, Performance Management, Information Assurance, and Systems Development Lifecycle (SDLC) processes with the EA process, and establish governance capabilities that ensure EA compliance across all IRM activities.  NARA’s EA process and EA work products are reviewed by OMB and scored against the EA Assessment Framework annually. 

812.4	Where are ’s EA process and EA work products defined?
NARA’s EA process and EA work products are defined by a formal methodology as documented in the Enterprise Architecture Planning and Development Methodology which is accessible from NARA@work, at www.nara-at-work.gov/information_technology/neitr/enterprise-architecture/index.html. The EA work products provide the following types of information:

	a.	Business planning information as represented by the Business Concept of Operations, Performance Architecture, Business Process Hierarchy, Business Process Definitions and Flows, etc.

	b.	Technology planning information as represented by the Data Architecture, Systems Architecture, Application Architecture, Operations Architecture, IT Security Architecture, etc.

	c.	Transition planning information as represented by the Business Transformation Plan and the Sequencing Plan.

	d.	Technical standards information as represented by the Technical Reference Model and the Technology Standards Profile.



812.5	Who is responsible for ensuring compliance with the EA?



	a.	Archivist of the  - The Archivist approves the EA submission to OMB upon the conclusion of briefings and a certification from the CIO and the Chief Architect that the annual EA submission to OMB is complete, responsive to OMB’s annual assessment criteria, and meets the needs of the agency. 



	b.	CIO - By statute, organizational responsibility for EA resides with the CIO, who also serves as the Assistant Archivist for Information Services (NH). The CIO is responsible for developing and maintaining the NARA EA that serves as the primary and authoritative resource for IRM planning and execution. NARA’s EA program is managed as a function within the Office of the CIO. 



	c.	Chief Architect - The CIO has designated the Chief Technology Officer (CTO), within NH, as the Chief Architect for the agency and the director of the EA program. Therefore the CTO is the person responsible for ensuring that EA work products are completed in alignment with agency priorities and used to guide and constrain all agency IRM activities. 



	d.	All  managers, staff, and contractors (therein referred to as  staff) - All NARA staff must comply with the applicable EA processes as described or identified elsewhere in this directive.

 

	e.	Architecture Review Board (ARB) - NARA has chartered the Architecture Review Board (ARB) as the formal governing body for ’s EA process at the request of the CIO.  Notice 2007-075 established the ARB and a copy of the charter attached to that notice describes in detail the purpose, scope, and activities of the ARB.



	f.	Business Architect - The Policy and Planning Staff (NPOL) will appoint a member to the ARB who will be responsible for the maintenance and update of the Business Architecture work products in ’s EA. The Business Architect will work in coordination with the Chief Architect and the Office of Information Services, Product Management Division (NHM) in coordinating these activities.



	g.	Director, Product Management Division (NHM) - Chairs the ARB, and provides ongoing support to the CTO, product owners, project managers, and senior  staff in ensuring EA processes are executed against an annual EA program plan.



	h.	Director, Acquisitions Services Division (NAA) is responsible for ensuring that information technology services contracts contain requirements for compliance with the NARA EA.



	i.	Office heads and staff directors - Appoint staff members to serve on the ARB, as described in NARA Notice 2007-075.



812.6	How does the ARB verify compliance with the EA?



	a.	’s CPIC and SDLC processes are used to manage IRM acquisitions and are integrated with the EA. Two key activities of the ARB are to ensure that product plans are reviewed for EA compliance as part of the CPIC process, and to ensure that SDLC deliverables and work products are reviewed for EA compliance. NARA 801, Review of Information Technology Investments and NARA 805, Systems Development Lifecycle (SDLC), specify checkpoints for EA compliance.  804, Information Technology (IT) Systems Security, references the IT Security Architecture section of the EA as the authoritative guidance for IA and IT security for . The EA methodology establishes review criteria to determine the successful completion of milestones identified in the CPIC and SDLC processes.



	b.	All IRM and IA activities must comply with the applicable principles, strategies, plans, guidelines, and standards documented in the EA work products.



812.7     What must be done if an activity is determined to be non-compliant with the EA? 

Activities that are determined by the ARB to be non-compliant with the EA are not permitted. When non-compliant activities are identified, they should be brought into compliance with the EA. Optionally, as described in the next section, the EA can be changed to reflect the needs of non-compliant activities at the discretion of the ARB.    



812.8	How often does the EA change?

NARA’s EA is updated at least once annually, in the September – February time frame, for submission in late February to OMB; however, the entire EA or individual sections or work products within the EA can be updated whenever there is a compelling reason to do so as determined by the ARB.  



812.9	How are EA changes approved and managed?

EA work products are changed by scheduling work activities for the annual EA update cycle in the EA Program Plan. Out-of-cycle changes can be made by submitting an EA Change Request to the EA program. The EA Change Request form may be downloaded from NARA@work, at www.nara-at-work.gov/information_technology/neitr/enterprise-architecture/index.html, and submitted through Office channels to the Chief Architect in NH. EA Change Requests are screened by the Chief Architect and, when appropriate, referred to the ARB, or to project or program change control boards for review and approval. Changes to EA work products must follow the NARA Enterprise Architecture Configuration Management Procedures that may be downloaded from NARA@work, at www.nara-at-work.gov/information_technology/neitr/enterprise-architecture/index.html.



812.10	How are EA changes communicated?

Changes to the EA are communicated by publishing updated EA work products on NARA@work subsequent to ARB approval. NARA Notices can be used to call attention to significant EA changes at the discretion of the ARB.  



812.11	How are records created by this directive maintained under the  records schedule? 

NH maintains EA-related records in accordance with General Records Schedule 27, Item 2: Cut off records when the EA is superseded by a new iteration of the enterprise architecture. Destroy records seven years after cutoff. The disposition will be incorporated into the NARA Records Schedule.





ATTACHMENT 2 – QUOTATION SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS



The National Archives and Records Administration () requires Prospective vendors to make an oral presentation to  officials for the purposes of assuring that the prospective Contractor fully understands and has the capability to meet or exceed all the requirements of the Performance Work Statement.   will incorporate the oral presentation into the delivery order.



Scheduling



The time frame for the oral presentations will be determined by the Contracting Officer (CO), which will begin five working days after the closing date for receipt of quotations.  Vendors will be allowed to request a date and time for oral presentations within a specific time frame.  The CO will draw lots to determine the order in which Vendors will make the presentations when two or more Vendors request the same time period.  Vendors must complete the presentations on the scheduled date and time.  Requests from Vendors to reschedule the presentations will not be entertained and presentations will not be rescheduled unless deemed necessary by the Government.  The Government reserves the right to reschedule a Vendor’s oral presentation at the discretion of the CO.  The oral presentations will be made at the:



National Archives and Records Administration

8601 Adelphi Road

College Park, MD 20740-6001



Content of the Presentation



The Program Manager selected by the Vendor for the proposed work must give the oral presentation, in person, to the Government to demonstrate that the Vendor’s proposed solution meets or exceeds NARA’s requirements as detailed in the Performance Work Statement (PWS).  The oral presentation must not include any price or cost information.  However, resource information such as data concerning labor hours, categories, material, and subcontracts must be contained in the presentation so that the Vendor’s understanding of the PWS can be evaluated.  The Vendor must address the topics in the following order: 



Technical Approach.  At a minimum the Vendor must demonstrate the Vendor’s technical experience, technical understanding, and the manner in which the proposed solution meets or exceeds the requirements of the PWS.  A series of workflow documents are included as Attachment 1 to assist in your understanding of NARA’s processes.

Personnel.  The oral presentation must describe the qualifications, technical experience on similar tasks, familiarity with planning processes, and suitability of the Vendor’s proposed Program Manager.

Relevant Past Performance.  The Vendor must discuss relevant past performance on related or similar Federal, State and Local Government and private contracts and subcontracts the Vendor has held within the last five years, and all contracts and subcontracts currently in progress which are of similar scope, magnitude, and complexity to that which is detailed in the Request for Quotation.  The information must be clear as to whether the work by the Vendor was done as a prime Contractor or as a subcontractor.



Structure of the Oral Presentation



The oral presentation time limit is 60 minutes. During the presentation, the Government’s attendees will not interrupt the Vendor to ask questions (except to request the repetition of inaudible words or statements or the explanation of terms that are unknown to them) or otherwise engage the Vendor in any dialogue.  Following the Vendor’s oral presentation, a 30 minute break will be taken.  The break will be followed by a question and answer period of 60 minutes during which the Government may ask questions and seek clarifications of certain aspects of quotations.



 Slides



The Vendor may use slides to make his/her presentation.  There is no limit to the number of slides that a Vendor may use during its oral presentation.  HOWEVER, THE VENDOR IS CAUTIONED, WHEN EVALUATING THE VENDOR’S PRESENTATION, THE GOVERNMENT WILL CONSIDER AND EVALUATE ONLY THE INFORMATION PRESENTED DURING THE ORAL PRESENTATION AND THE FOLLOWING QUESTION AND ANSWER PERIOD.  Either color or black and white slides are acceptable.  The Vendor must submit three (3) paper copies of its oral presentation briefing slides with its written submission.   will provide the presenter with an overhead projector to present the slides.  If the Vendor wishes to use computer projection, he/she must inquire with the Contracting Officer (CO) concerning ’s software and hardware capabilities at least five (5) working days before presentations are to occur.  The Vendor is responsible for providing, setting up and operating any additional presentation equipment needed for its presentations.  Submission of videotapes or other forms of media containing the presentation for evaluation is not authorized and such presentations will be rejected.  



Resume



In addition to the relevant past performance oral presentation information, the Vendor must submit a written resume showing all relevant training, education, and work history that are pertinent to this delivery order for the proposed Program Manager.  See Attachment 4 - Terms and Conditions for information concerning key personnel.

 

Relevant Past Performance Information



Attachment 6 - Past Performance Questionnaire is to be forwarded to and completed by your references, then submitted directly to the Contracting Officer no later than the closing date and time for quotation submissions (see the SF 1449 for date and time).  



The Vendor must also submit, in writing, as part of its oral presentation, the relevant past performance information (limited to 5 contracts) describing its directly-related or similar Federal, State and Local Government, and private contracts and subcontracts it has held within the last 5 years including contracts and subcontracts currently in progress which are of similar scope, magnitude and complexity to that which is detailed in the RFQ. (The information must be clear whether the work by the Vendor was done as a prime Contractor or a subcontractor).  Vendors who describe similar contracts and subcontracts must provide a detailed explanation demonstrating the similarity of the contracts to the requirements of the RFQ.  If the Vendor has no relevant past performance history in the requisite contract amount, the Vendor may submit information on relevant past performance at lower dollar levels, providing that the Vendor adheres to the above limitation of 5 contracts.  The Vendor’s quotation must include the following:



Contract Number(s); type of contract; period of performance; total original and present or final contract dollar value; and specify whether the Vendor was the prime Contractor or the subcontractor.

Agency or Company name, address, telephone and fax numbers (both contractual and technical personnel) at the Federal, State, Local Government, or Commercial entity for which the contract was performed.

Detailed description of the work performed.

Clear statements describing whether the contract services and schedules were completed on time, with a quality product conforming to the contract, without any degradation in performance or customer satisfaction.  Discuss any cost growth if the contract was not completed for the original contract amount.

The number; type; frequency; duration and impact of any quality, delivery or cost problems in performing the contract; the corrective action taken, if any; and the effectiveness of the corrective action.

Vendors must submit similar relevant past performance information on proposed significant or critical subcontractors.  Subcontractor relevant past performance must be relevant to that required under this RFQ and to the work to be subcontracted.  The quotation must describe the amount of work and criticality of the work to be subcontracted.  Such subcontractor work must clearly indicate the extent of involvement of the subcontractors in the proposed effort (such as 40% of the total labor hours) and why such subcontractor experience is relevant considering the subcontractor effort proposed.

Vendors must either provide the above information or affirmatively state in writing that it possesses no relevant directly related or similar relevant past performance.



Failure to submit the required Relevant Past Performance information by the due date may result in rejection of the quotation unless the Vendor has certified that it has no relevant, directly related or similar relevant past performance experiences.



Self-Scoring Requirements Checklist



The Vendor is required to complete and submit the self-scoring requirements checklist, Attachment 7.  






Price Quotation



The period of performance is for a base period 12 months and four 12 month option periods.  For pricing purposes, the Vendor must use a start date of September 20, 2010.



The Vendor must provide the following information on the first page of the pricing quotation:



RFQ Number;

Name and address of Vendor;

Name and telephone number of point of contact;

Name of contract administration office (if available);

Type of order; and

Proposed prices per the Schedule of Prices - best prices offered to the Government (See Attachment 3).



Representations and Certifications



Include a completed copy of the provision at 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items, with your proposal.



52.212-3 Offeror Representations and Certifications-Commercial Items Alternate I The offeror has completed the annual representations and certification electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representation and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and certifications-Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference);




Appendix A: NARA Workflow Process

Basic Case Workflow



Initiating a Case for OGIS Assistance



Scenario A: Customer contacts OGIS Access system directly



Step 1: Customer enters the OGIS Access System portal (Web) seeking OGIS assistance. [OGIS Web interface entrance]. Customer will have an option of searching, scrolling through information on the Web site (OGIS blogs, FAQs, etc) or possibly directly making a request to OGIS for assistance.



Step 2: Customer finds information on the Web portal and exits or goes to Step 3. 



Step 3: If customer decides to make a request for assistance, they are directed to a structured interview (“OGIS Wizard”) that will help them decide whether they are at the point where OGIS can help them.  (See “OGIS Wizard” for sample of questions and how it would direct them.) 



Step 4: The Wizard will capture information to allow OGIS to determine the type of assistance requested (information, facilitation, mediation, etc) as well as the category of case (delay, denial, etc).



Step 5: If the Wizard determines that OGIS can provide assistance, then the customer provides basic contact information (name, address, phone number, e-mail address), information about the agency(ies) involved, and a basic explanation of what is requested of OGIS.  The customer will also have the opportunity to attach documents that would include any correspondence with agencies etc.  The system will also provide instructions related to how to attach all of this information when making the request for OGIS assistance. [OGIS Interface/Wizard]



Step 6: Once all information is received, the OGIS Access System will assign a unique case number.  [Assign Unique Case Number]



Step 7: The OGIS Access System will then auto-populate an acknowledgment email, or letter based on the contact information the customer has entered (Note: there is a section in the Wizard that asks for the preferred method of contact).  The acknowledgment will provide the customer with the case number, acknowledge the date OGIS received the request, and other general pre-determined approved language.  The customer will also be provided information on how to check the status of the case online. [Sends Auto-generated acknowledgement with Unique Case Number]



	NOTE: To see an example of current OGIS case data fields, look at the current Case logs on OGIS Web site . We want something similar to be available through the OGIS Access System for status updates to customers and all who view the Web site.



Step 8: The system will then place the new case into a queue so that OGIS management (Reviewer role) can determine what is requested and assign it to a specific case category (delay, denial, etc) and to ensure correct case type (information, facilitation, etc) based on the information received from the customer. [Case Review]



Step 9: The Reviewer assigns the case to an OGIS Case Manager. [Case Assignment]



Scenario B: Customer contacts OGIS through email, phone, or postal mail



Step 1: After receiving correspondence, OGIS staff member will enter information in the OGIS Access System capturing the disposition of the FOIA request, contact information of customer etc. All information that would be captured if the actual customer were making the request (see above).  



Step 2: OGIS staffer will scan all relevant documents into the system.



Step 3: See Step 6 Above and continue from there.





Processing the Case



Step 1: Assigned case is now available in the Case Manager’s (CM) electronic file cabinet queue. Based on that CM’s profile, the CM may or may not receive an e-mail notifying her that there is a new case.



Step 2: Specific workflows with timeframes will already be built into the system.  For example, if the CM does not view the case after a designated time period (perhaps 3 days), reminders will be sent (or actions required will be bolded or pop-ups will appear), to get the attention of the assigned CM.



Step 3:  The OGIS CM reviews the information in the electronic case file, making notes as necessary about the information provided (all notes should be captured and added to file). At this point, the CM will determine if there is enough information to work on the case, or if more information is needed from the customer. If the information is complete, the case begins to move through the work flow appropriate for its case type (Information, Facilitation, etc). 



Step 4: If more information is needed from the customer, the CM will contact the customer before the case can begin to move through the work flow.  



Step 5: The System will have correspondence templates stored that include pre-drafted language the CM can use to draft correspondence to the customer. The system will also include a form for phone notes (if the CM calls the customer rather than writing) that includes specific questions that will ensure all necessary information is captured. [Correspondence Approval]



Step 6: If a letter or e-mail is necessary, the CM uses the stored language to draft correspondence. [Correspondence Approval]



Step 7: The CM then moves the correspondence into a queue for Reviewer approval.  The Reviewer receives an e-mail indicating that approval is pending.



Step 8: The Reviewer either approves correspondence or suggest/makes changes to correspondence which moves the correspondence back to the CM. 



Step 9: CM sends correspondence to customer and waits for a response (can also assign reminders for follow-up with customers as well).



Step 10: Customer responds with necessary information. Or see Administrative Closure if no response after 30 days and 3 attempts at contact to no avail. 



 



Case Type: Information



If the Reviewer determines that a case type is “Information,” the case will follow this workflow:



Step 1: CM looks through OGIS FAQs, Fact Sheets, Web site, other information and does all required research to find the information to report to the customer.  CM adds notes (date, time, name of CM) detailing the research that has been done (with general pre-determined case status updates available) to OGIS Access System.  System should include built-in time frames for actions to be completed for research, with reminders.



Step 2: CM drafts appropriate response that gives the customer the requested information. 



Step 3: Correspondence Approval section: 



a) The System will have templates stored with pre-drafted language for the analyst to draft correspondence to the customer.  The system will also include a form for phone notes (if the CM calls the customer rather than writing) that includes specific questions that will ensure all necessary information is captured.  



b) If letter or e-mail is necessary, the CM uses the stored language to draft correspondence. 



c) The CM then moves the correspondence into a queue for Reviewer approval. 



d) The Reviewer either approves correspondence or suggests/makes changes to correspondence which moves the correspondence back to the CM. 



e) CM sends correspondence to customer.



Step 4: Case moves to Closing a Case





Case Type: Facilitation



Step 1: CM decides next steps necessary as a facilitator.  



Step 2: If a phone call or e-mail to an agency contact (to gather more information) is necessary, the CM can access templates for the correspondence or phone notes with key questions. If a phone call is placed, the information gathered is added to the case file. 



Step 3: At this point, the CM may do any number of things (research, conference calls, e-mail) to resolve the conflict. All of this must be captured and attached to the case file.



Step 4: Once resolution is reached on case, CM creates final response to customer using correspondence templates or, if final response is via telephone, captures the conversation in case notes (in which case, skip to Step 8). 



Step 5: The CM then moves the correspondence into a queue for Reviewer approval. 



Step 6: The Reviewer either approves correspondence or suggests/makes changes to correspondence which moves the correspondence back to the CM. 



Step 7: CM sends correspondence to customer.



Step 8: Case moves to Closing a Case





Case Type: Mediation



This is the most complicated workflow. It must allow for multiple parties including the customer, the agency representative, the mediator, and the CM (at least to be able to monitor the process). It must incorporate tools such as chat, file sharing, possibly video conferencing (perhaps using Skype), or an online collaboration tool like ‘GoToMeeting.’ All of these tools must produce a transcript that is added to the case file. When a resolution is reached, the system should supply a template for a statement that memorializes the decision.



Case moves to Closing a Case



Case Type: Complaint/Other



This flow basically involves documenting the complaint, putting it into a case category that allows us to access this information to include in reports or feed into policy discussions. There is a need to capture detailed information about what the complainant is reporting.  This case type could require contact with the customer as well; therefore those steps will also be followed.  





Closing a Case



Step 1: After approved correspondence has been sent and/or phone call completed and ALL actions necessary for case closure have been completed the case can be closed in the OGIS Access System.



Step 2: System should include a closure form that requires CM to check off all necessary steps for closure. This form should be added to the file. 



Step 3: If follow-ups have been recommended, these should be entered at this point and reminders should be generated. 



Administrative Closure



If CM is unable to get a response from the customer after correspondence or contact has been initiated within 30 days and/or 3 attempts via phone have not been answered within the 30 days, an administrative closure can be done.  Note: This only applies to the public customers.  If an agency does not respond, the case does not close, it gets escalated. 



Reporting, Metrics and Feedback

It is very important for all actions to be as transparent as possible.  A Daily Report of all cases giving the general information should be populated automatically everyday at a set time and published to the Web site.  Everything in the system should be searchable. 

Case file area should include a free text box for internal OGIS use that is called ‘observations/OGIS follow-up’ to note issues.

OGIS public interface should include analytics so that we can monitor what information is most frequently accessed. 

We also envision customers being able to provide feedback to us regarding the services/information provided to be able to measure and report our successes and failures. 

Ad hoc reports should be available which would allow for publishing into the Web site as well. 












OGIS “wizard” (Structured Interview)



Created: March 14 2010, 9:50 AM

Last Modified: March 14 2010, 9:50 AM

Design Theme: Business Suit Blue

Language: English

Button Options: Custom: Start Survey: "Click here to begin"  Submit: "Next"

Disable Browser “Back” Button: False









Page 1 - Question 1 - Yes or No	

Have you already filed your Freedom of Information Act request? (click on "yes" or "no" and then click on "Next")



Yes [Skip to 2]

No [Skip to 8]



Page 2 - Question 2 - Yes or No	

Did you request records about yourself?



Yes [Skip to 7]

No [Skip to 3]



Page 3 - Question 3 - Choice - One Answer (Bullets)	

What is the main reason you are contacting OGIS? (if you need information about more than one of the following, you can return here later)



I have not received some or all of the documents I have requested [Skip to 4]

I have a problem with one of the following: a fee or fee waiver request or a request for expedited processing [Skip to 46]

Do you have a problem or issue not listed above? Please explain







 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]



Page 4 - Question 4 - Choice - One Answer (Bullets)	[Mandatory]

What is the status of your request? (click on one of the following and then click on Next)



I have not yet filed a FOIA request [Skip to 19]

I filed a request but have heard nothing from the agency [Skip to 15]

I filed a request, was notified by the agency that it had been received but  the decision has been delayed [Skip to 25]

I filed a request and received a decision from the agency [Skip to 34]

I received a decision from the agency and am appealing it [Skip to 9]

I have done everything. I have filed a request, received a decision from the agency, appealed the agency decision and the appeal was partly or completely denied [Skip to 46]

Do you have a problem or issue not listed above? Please explain







 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]





Page 7 - Heading	

Thank you for bringing your concerns to the attention of OGIS.  

As you may be aware, the OGIS mission is to review agency compliance with FOIA and mediation of FOIA disputes.  Unfortunately, requests for your own records fall outside the scope of our office's mission and we are unable to assist you with this matter.





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 8 - Heading	

If your goal is to file a FOIA request to obtain records from a Federal agency, you can find user-friendly, step-by-step guides at:  http://www.gwu.edu/~nsarchiv/nsa/foia/tips.html and http://www.rcfp.org/fogg/index.php. You can find a list of agencies' FOIA contacts at: http://www.justice.gov/oip/foiacontacts.htm.  Feel free to contact OGIS again if you have a problem after you have filed a FOIA request.





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 9 - Heading	

The appropriate time for OGIS to become involved in your FOIA request is after you have filed an appeal and either the agency has responded or the time to respond  has expired. Please be sure that you have taken these steps and followed up with the agency's FOIA Public Liaison, whose role is to assist with resolving disputes. If you think OGIS can be of assistance, feel free to contact us at ogis@nara.gov or (877) 684-6448 or click on Next.





 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]





Page 15 - Heading	

FOIA requires that an agency respond to a FOIA request within 20 business days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays.  This time period does not begin until the request is actually received by the agency's office that handles FOIA requests.  If you have not received your response within the time frame, please first contact the agency's FOIA Public Liaison, whose role is to assist with resolving disputes. A list of agency Public Liaisons is available at  http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc   If you still need OGIS assistance please feel free to contact us at  ogis@nara.gov or (877) 684-6448 or click on Next.





 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]



Page 16 - Question 5 - Yes or No	

Have you contacted the agency FOIA Public Liaison? A list of these persons is accessible at http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc



Yes [Skip to 18]

No [Skip to 19]



Page 17 - Heading	

Please wait until the time deadline passes. If you hear nothing at that time, you should contact the FOIA Public Liaison. A list of FOIA Public Liaisons is available at http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 18 - Heading	

Please contact our office at ogis@nara.gov or (877)684-6448.





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 19 - Heading	

Before we can help you further, you should either file a request with the agency you believe is holding your records or contact that agency's FOIA Public Liaison.  Every agency has a FOIA Public Liaison whose job it is to answer questions and assist you in making a request.   A list of such persons is available at http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 20 - Question 6 - Yes or No	

Has the agency notified you that it needs more time?



Yes [Skip to 22]

No [Skip to 21]



Page 21 - Heading	

You should contact the agency's FOIA Public Liaison and explain that the time limit has passed. A list of Public Liaisons is available at http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 22 - Heading	

If the time limit has passed and the agency has told you it will need more time, you should give them a reasonable time to respond. If, at some point, you believe that they are not responding properly, you should contact the agency's FOIA Public Liaison. A list of Public Liaisons is available at   http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc.





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 24 - Question 7 - Yes or No	

Has the time limit passed?



Yes [Skip to 25]

No [Skip to 26]



Page 25 - Question 8 - Yes or No	

FOIA requires that an agency respond to a FOIA request within 20 business days, excluding Saturdays, Sundays and legal holidays; has that time limit passed?



Yes [Skip to 27]

No [Skip to 26]



Page 26 - Heading	

Please wait until the 20 business days have passed. If you have not received your response within the time frame, please first contact the agency's FOIA Public Liaison, whose role is to assist with resolving disputes, for assistance  http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc   If you still need OGIS assistance please feel free to contact us at ogis@nara.gov or (877) 684-6448 or click on Next





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 27 - Heading	

An agency's FOIA Public Liaison exists to assist with resolving disputes, Please first contact that person for assistance at http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc   and if you still need OGIS assistance, please feel free to contact us at ogis@nara.gov or (877) 684-6448 or click on Next





 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]



Page 34 - Question 10 - Yes or No	

Have you filed an appeal?



Yes [Skip to 36]

No [Skip to 35]



Page 35 - Heading	

OGIS is here to assist at any point in the process; however, we prefer that requesters complete the administrative appeal process to allow the agency a chance to reconsider its decision. Please file your appeal with the agency and feel free to come back to OGIS if you need additional assistance.





Unconditional Skip to End



Page 36 - Question 11 - Choice - One Answer (Bullets)	

What happened?



I have appealed but the agency has not yet made a decision. [Skip to 37]

My appeal has been decided [Skip to 39]



Page 37 - Heading	

Agencies have up to 20 days to respond to an appeal. If that time has passed please first contact the agency's FOIA Public Liaison whose role it is to assist in resolving disputes. A list of agency Public Liaisons is accessible at http://www.ombuds.org/foia/foia_public_liaisons.doc    If you think OGIS can be of assistance, please feel free to contact us at ogis@nara.gov or (877) 684-6448 or click on Next





 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]





Page 39 - Question 12 - Choice - Multiple Answers (Bullets)	

How can OGIS be of assistance?



I would like you to mediate this dispute with the agency [Skip to 46]

Other, please specify







 [Skip Unconditionally to 46]







Page 46 - Question 14 - Open Ended - One or More Lines with Prompt	

If you need our assistance, please provide us with the following information and we will get back to you within 2 business days. All information you provide to us is protected by our privacy policy.



Page 46 - Question 15 - Open Ended - Comments Box	

What is the best way for us to get in touch with you?











Page 46 - Question 16 - Open Ended - Comments Box	

Very briefly, why do you need our help?













Thank You Page

Redirect: <http://www.ombuds.org/foia/endpage.htm>



Screen Out Page

Redirect: <http://www.ombuds.org/foia/endpage.htm>





Survey Closed Page

If you need further assistance with your Freedom of Information Act request, please feel free to contact the Office of Government Information Services at ogis@nara.gov or (877) 684-6448












Subroutine (A)










Subroutine (B)





Subroutine (C)




Subroutine (D)













ATTACHMENT 3 – EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD

Vendor selection will be based on the best overall value to the Government.  The Vendor’s quotation submission as described in Attachment 2 will be evaluated using the following evaluation factors:

Technical Factors 

Technical Approach - The Government will assess the quoted solution’s technical compliance with NARA’s requirements and the Vendor’s technical understanding and overall approach to this project as it relates to the PWS tasks.  



Personnel - The Government will assess the qualifications, experience, and training of the Vendor’s proposed Program Manager.



Relevant Past Performance - The Vendor will be evaluated to assess the demonstrated quality of performance on similar work, to include the ability to control the quality and cost of work, timeliness of performance, and effectiveness at accomplishing the goals of previous work.  

Price

All evaluation factors other than cost or price, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or price.  













ATTACHMENT 4 – ADDITIONAL TERMS  CONDITIONS

FAR 52.217-8, OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days before the contract expires.

FAR 52.217-9, OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT ( 2000)

The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within thirty (30) days of the expiration of the term; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least sixty (60) days before the contract expires.  The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.

If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed sixty-six (66) months.

FAR 52.252-2, CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text.  Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available.  Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): 



52.209-5	Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (APR 2010)

52.212-3 	Offeror Representations and Certifications—Commercial Items (Aug 2009) – Offerors shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the Offeror has completed the annual representations and certificates electronically at  . If an Offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the Offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (m) of this provision

52.212-5	Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders—Commercial Items (July 2010)

Paragraph (b) The following clauses are incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

52.203-6 	Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sep 06) w/Alternate I (Oct 1995)

52.204-10 	Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010)

52.219-28 	Post Award Small Business Program Representations (Apr 2009)

52.222-3 	Convict Labor (June 2003)

52.222-19 	Child Labor – Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010)

52.222-21 	Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999)

52.222-26 	Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)

52.222-35 	Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)

52.222-36 	Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Jun 1998)

52.222-37 	Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sept 2006)

52.225-13  Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008)

52.232-33 	Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer – Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003)

52.239-1 	Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996)

52.217-5 	Evaluation of Options (July 1990)

52.227-19 	Commercial Computer Software License (DEC 2007)

52.232-18 	Availability of Funds (Apr 1984) 

Contract Level Program Management

The Contractor shall provide the technical and functional activities at the contract level needed for the program management of this project. The Contractor shall include productivity and management methods such as Quality Assurance, Configuration Management, Risk Management, Work Breakdown Structuring, Spend Plan, and Human Engineering at the necessary level for this contract. 



For all employees needing access to national security information, the contractor shall only provide employees that have background investigations and have been granted access in accordance with Executive Order 12968, Access to Classified Information and the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual.

Key Personnel  

The Contractor agrees to assign to the delivery order those key persons whose resumes were submitted as part of the quotation response to fill the requirements of the delivery order.  No substitution or addition of personnel will be made except in accordance with this clause.



The Contractor agrees that during the first 12 months of the delivery order period, no personnel substitutions will be permitted, unless such substitutions are necessitated by an individual’s sudden illness, death, or termination of employment.  In any of these events, the Contractor shall promptly notify the Contracting Officer/Contracting Officer’s Representative and provide the information required by paragraph (d) below. 



If key personnel, for whatever reason, become unavailable for work under this delivery order for a continuous period exceeding thirty (30) working days, or are expected to devote substantially less effort to the work than indicated in its Quotation, the Contractor shall propose a substitution of such personnel, in accordance with paragraph (d) below.



All proposed key personnel substitutions shall be submitted, in writing, to the Contracting Officer/Contracting Officer’s Representative at least fifteen (15) days prior to the proposed substitution.  Each request shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitution, a complete resume for the proposed substitute and any other information required by the Contracting Officer to approve or disapprove the proposed substitution(s).  Resumes for key personnel substitutions shall be submitted in Contractor format. All proposed substitutes (no matter when they are proposed during the performance period) shall have qualifications that are equal to or higher than the qualifications of the person being replaced.  



In the event the Contractor designates additional key personnel as deemed appropriate for the requirement, the Contractor shall submit to the Contracting Officer for approval the information required in paragraph (d) above. 



The Contracting Officer will evaluate requests for substitution and addition of personnel and promptly notify the Contractor, in writing, whether a request is approved or disapproved.



If the Contracting Officer determines that suitable and timely replacement of key personnel who have been reassigned, terminated, or have otherwise become unavailable to perform under the delivery order is not reasonably forthcoming, or that a resultant reduction of productive effort would impair the successful completion of the delivery order, the delivery order may be terminated by the Contracting Officer for default or for the convenience of the Government, as appropriate.  Alternatively, at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, if the Contracting Officer finds the Contractor to be at fault for the condition, she may equitably adjust (downward) the delivery order price to compensate the Government for any delay, loss or damage as a result of the Contractor’s action.

Standards of Conduct

The Contractor will be responsible for maintaining satisfactory standards of employee competency, conduct, appearance, and integrity. The Contractor is also responsible for ensuring that its employees and those of its subcontractor(s) do not disturb papers on desks, open desk drawers or cabinets, use Government telephones, except as authorized, or otherwise jeopardize the security and the privacy of Government employees, its clientele, and the contents and property of the federal building(s) in which the delivery order work is performed.  Each employee or supervisor of the Contractor is expected to adhere to standards of behavior that reflect credit on themselves, their employer, and the Federal Government. 



The Contractor will be responsible for taking such disciplinary action, including suspension without pay or removal from the worksite, with respect to its employees, as may be necessary to enforce those standards.



Where applicable, the requirements of this clause must be expressly incorporated into subcontract(s) and must be applicable to all subcontractor employees who may perform recurring services or work at the federal building and grounds of this delivery order.



The Government retains the right to permanently remove any employee of the Contractor from performing duties assigned under this delivery order at the federal building should the employee’s performance so warrant. The Government will request the Contractor to immediately remove any employee of the Contractor from the federal building/work-site should it be determined by the Contracting Officer that the individual employee of the Contractor is “unsuitable” for security reasons or for otherwise being found to be unfit for performing his assigned duty at a federal building.  The following areas (not all-inclusive) are considered justification for requesting the Contractor to immediately remove an employee from a federal building/work site:



Neglect of assigned duty and refusing to render assistance or cooperate in upholding the integrity of the security programs at the worksite;

Falsification or unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, or destruction of any official documents or records, or concealment of material facts by willful omissions from official documents or records;

Disorderly conduct, use of abusive or offensive language, quarreling, intimidation by words or actions, or fighting; participation in disruptive activities which interfere with the normal and efficient operations of the Government;

Theft, vandalism, immoral conduct, or any other criminal actions;

Selling, consuming, or being under the influence of intoxicants, drugs, or controlled substances which produce similar effects;

Improper use of official authority or credentials, as a supervisor or employee of the Contractor; 

Violation of agency and Contractor security procedures and regulations; and

Violation of the rules and regulations governing federal public buildings and grounds, set forth in 41  Subpart 101-20.3 Conduct on Federal Property.



Following a recommendation from an agency program official or security officer, the Contracting Officer will make all determinations regarding the removal of any employee of the Contractor from and denial/termination of clearance and access to the federal building worksite for non-performance, misconduct, or failure to abide by all laws and regulations. The Contracting Officer will verbally inform the Contractor about the employee, followed by a written confirmation or determination. Specific reasons for the removal of an employee will be provided to the Contractor in writing. In the event of a dispute, the Contracting Officer will make a final determination.



Upon a determination of the Government that an employee of the Contractor be removed from or denied access to a federal building worksite, the employee’s clearance and access to the federal building shall be immediately revoked or otherwise terminated. Furthermore, if applicable, the building pass and/or other access device(s) previously given to the employee must be immediately surrendered, returned, or delivered to the security officer of the federal building.




Confidentiality of Information





Confidential information is any information that, if subject to unauthorized access, modification, loss, or misuse could adversely affect the national interest, the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy of individuals, but has not been specifically authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.  Confidential information also includes proprietary data and information for which other restrictions on access apply.    



The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information and/or categories of information which the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which is confidential.  Similarly, the Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during the performance of the contract.  Failure to agree will be settled pursuant to the “Disputes” clause.



While in the course of performance of this Contract, the Contractor may have access to confidential information and communications, including but not limited to Personally Identifiable Information (PII).  Confidential information may be contained in printed material or on electronic media.  The Contractor will preserve the confidentiality of all such information and communications and agrees not to disclose, release, disseminate, or publish any such information or communications for any purposes whatsoever without the prior approval of the Contracting Officer.  Failure to comply with the provisions of this Paragraph will be grounds for Termination for Default and the Contractor may be liable for damages.  This provision shall survive the expiration or termination of the period of performance of this Contract.



If it is established elsewhere in this contract that information to be utilized under this contract, or a portion thereof, is subject to the Privacy Act, the Contractor will follow the rules and procedures of disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and implementing regulations and policies, with respect to systems of records determined to be subject to the Privacy Act. 



During the course of the performance of this Contract, the Contractor may have access to and use of data and information which may be considered proprietary by other vendors, or which may otherwise be of such a nature that its dissemination or use, other than in performance of this Contract, would be adverse to the interest of NARA and these other vendors.        



Except as may be otherwise agreed to with these other vendors, the Contractor agrees that it will not use, disclose or reproduce proprietary data and information belonging to these other vendors other than as required in the performance of this Contract; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be construed as: (1) precluding the use of any such data or information independently acquired by the Contractor without such limitation; or (2) prohibiting an agreement at no cost to NARA between the Contractor and these vendors which provides for greater rights to the Contractor.



When considering a request to disclose, release, disseminate, or publish confidential information, the Contracting Officer will consult with appropriate program and legal officials.



At the discretion of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor’s employees may be required to sign a non-disclosure agreement prior to performing any work under this contract.



The terms of this paragraph apply to all Contractor employees, subcontractors and consultants and must be incorporated into any subcontract.

Permits and Licenses

In performance of work under this delivery order, the Contractor shall, without additional expense to the Government, be responsible for obtaining any necessary licenses and permits, and for complying with any Federal, State, and municipal laws, codes, and regulations applicable to the performance of the work. 

Security of Systems Handling and Protection of Personally Identifiable Information (January 2010)

(a) Applicability



This clause applies to all personally identifiable information, as defined in Section B, regardless of the medium in which it is found and includes paper records. 



(b)  Definitions.  As used in this clause:



“Breach” means the loss of control, compromise, unauthorized disclosure, unauthorized acquisition, unauthorized access, or any similar situation where persons other than authorized users, and for other than authorized purpose, have access or potential access to personally identifiable information, in usable form whether physical or electronic.



“Personally identifiable information (PII)” means any information that permits the identity of an individual to be directly or indirectly inferred, including any other information that is linked or linkable to that individual regardless of whether the individual is a citizen of the , legal permanent resident, or a visitor to the .  Examples of PII include the following:

Name. 

Date of birth.

Mailing address.

Telephone number.

Social Security Number.

Email address.

Zip code.

Account numbers.

Certificate/license numbers.

Vehicle identifiers including license plates.

Uniform resource locators (URLs).

Internet protocol addresses.

Biometric identifiers (e.g., fingerprints).

Photographic facial images.

Any other unique identifying number or characteristic.

Any information where it is reasonably foreseeable that the information will be linked with other information to identify the individual.



“Sensitive personally identifiable information (sensitive PII)” means a subset of PII, which if lost, compromised or disclosed without authorization, could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to an individual.  

	

	(1)  Complete social security numbers, alien registration numbers (A-number) and biometric identifiers (such as fingerprint, voiceprint, or iris scan) are considered sensitive PII even if they are not coupled with additional PII.  

	

	(2)  Additional examples include any grouping of information that contains an individual’s name or other unique identifier plus one or more of the following elements:



(i)  Driver’s license number, passport number, or  

     	truncated social security number (such as last 4 digits);

(ii)  Date of birth (month, day, and year);

(iii)  Citizenship or immigration status;

(iv)  Financial information such as account numbers or 

     	electronic funds transfer information;

(v)  Medical information; and/or

(vi)  System authentication information such as 

     	mother’s maiden name, account passwords or 

     	personal identification numbers.



(3)  Other PII may be “sensitive” depending on its context, such as a list of employees with less than satisfactory performance ratings or an unlisted home address or phone number.  In contrast, a business card or public telephone directory of agency employees contains PII but it is not sensitive.  



(c)  Data Security.  



(1)  The Contractor shall limit access to the data covered by this clause to those employees and subcontractors who require the information in order to perform their official duties under this contract. 



(2)  The Contractor, Contractor employees, and subcontractors must physically or electronically secure sensitive PII when not in use and/or under the control of an authorized individual, and when in transit to prevent unauthorized access or loss.



(3)  When sensitive PII is no longer needed or required to be retained under applicable Government records retention policies, it must be destroyed, as specified in the contract, or if not specified in the contract, through means that will make the sensitive PII irretrievable.



(4)  The Contractor shall only use sensitive PII obtained under this contract for purposes of the contract; it shall not be disclosed, released, disseminated, or published without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. 



(5)  If it is established elsewhere in this contract that information to be utilized under this contract, or a portion thereof, is subject to the Privacy Act, the Contractor will follow the rules and procedures of disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and implementing regulations and policies, with respect to systems of records determined to be subject to the Privacy Act. 



(6)  At expiration or termination of this contract, the Contractor shall turn over all sensitive PII obtained under the contract that is in its possession.



(d)  Systems Access.  Work to be performed under this contract may require the handling of PII.  The Contractor shall provide the Government access to, and information regarding those systems handling sensitive PII for the Government under the contract, when requested by the Government, as part of the Contractor’s responsibility to ensure compliance with security requirements, and shall otherwise cooperate with the Government in assuring compliance with such requirements.  Government access shall include independent testing of controls, system penetration testing by the Government, Federal Information Security Management Act data reviews, and access by agency Inspectors General (IG) for IG reviews.



(e)  Systems Security.  



(1)  In performing its duties related to management, operation, and/or access of systems containing PII under this contract, the Contractor, its employees and subcontractors shall comply with all applicable security requirements and rules of conduct applicable to the agency’s systems as described in: 

		

a)  Directive 1608;

		b)  Notice 2010-045;

c)  Penalty Guide (Personnel 300, Appendix 752A - Penalty Guide); and 

		d) 



(2)  In addition, the use of contractor-owned laptops or other portable storage devices to process or store sensitive PII is prohibited under this contract until the Contractor provides, and the Contracting Officer, in coordination with the Senior Agency Official for Privacy or the SAOP’s designee, approves the Contractor’s written acknowledgment that the following requirements are met: 



(i)  Laptops and other portable storage devices must employ encryption that is NIST Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2 validated (or its successor), and approved;



(ii)  The Contractor has developed and implemented a process to ensure that security and other applications software are kept current;



(iii)  Mobile computing devices utilize anti-virus software and a host-based firewall mechanism;



(iv)  Removable media, such as hard drives, flash drives, devices with flash memory, CDs and floppy disks containing sensitive PII shall not be removed from a Government facility unless they are encrypted using a NIST FIPS 140-2 or successor approved product;



(v)  When no longer needed, all removable media, hard drives, and flash memory shall be destroyed in accordance with Government security requirements identified in ’s Media Protection Methodology;  



(vi)  The Contractor shall maintain an accurate inventory of devices used in the performance of this contract;



(vii) Contractor employee annual training and rules of conduct/behavior shall be developed by  as part of its annual PII training program. This training will be completed within 30 days of contract employees beginning work on a sensitive PII project and thereafter annually. Such completion will be acknowledged by employees in writing and reported to ’s Senior Agency Official for Privacy or the SAOP’s designee



(viii)  All sensitive PII obtained under this contract shall be removed from contractor-owned information technology assets upon termination or expiration of Contractor work.  Removal must be accomplished in accordance with , which the Contracting Officer will provide at the outset of work and later upon request.  Certification of data removal will be performed by the Contractor’s Project Manager and written notification confirming acknowledgment will be delivered to the Contracting Officer within 30 days of termination/expiration of Contractor work.



(ix) Back up of any systems or files containing PII shall be treated in the same manner as the original data containing PII, with the same protections and obligations. 



	(3)  The Contractor shall require FIPS 140-2 (or successor) encryption of any sensitive PII when transmitted electronically across the Internet or other public works. 



(f)  Breach Notification to Government. 



(1)  The Contractor has been provided with: NARA Directive 1608, and is aware of its roles, responsibilities, and relationship with the Government in case of data breach.   



(2)  In the event of any actual or suspected breach of sensitive PII, the Contractor shall immediately, and in no event later than one hour of discovery, report the breach to the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer’s Technical Representative (COTR), the Senior Agency Official for Privacy and the Chief Information Officer in accordance with NARA Directive 1608, 



(3)  The Contractor is responsible for positively verifying that notification is received and acknowledged by appropriate Government parties identified in subparagraph (2) above.  



(g)  Flowdown of security requirements to subcontractors.   



(1)  The Contractor shall incorporate the substance of this clause, its terms and requirements including this paragraph (g), in all subcontracts under this contract, and require written subcontractor acknowledgement of same.  



(2)  Violation by a subcontractor of any provision set forth in this clause will be attributed to the Contractor.  






ATTACHMENT 5 – CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION



Contractor Responsibility

The Contractor is responsible for the day-to-day inspection and monitoring of the Contractor work performed to ensure compliance with delivery order requirements.  The results of all Contractor quality control inspections conducted shall be documented on inspection checklists and be made available to the Government during the term of the delivery order.

Government Contract Administration

This delivery order will be administered by:



National Archives and Records Administration

Acquisition Services Division, Code NAA

Room 3340

8601 Adelphi Road

College Park, MD 20740-6001



Contracting Officer:



Allen R. Edgar



301-837-1489



The Contracting Officer (CO) alone, without delegation, is authorized to take actions on behalf of the Government to amend, modify, or deviate from the delivery order terms, conditions, requirements, specifications, details and/or delivery schedules; make final decisions on disputed deductions from delivery order payments for non-performance or unsatisfactory performance; terminate the delivery order for convenience or default; and issue final decisions regarding delivery order questions or matters under dispute.  However, the CO may delegate certain other responsibilities to authorized representatives.

Designation of Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR)

COR:  		TBD

Phone:		TBD

E-Mail: 	TBD@nara.gov



The individual named above is designated as the Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) to assist the CO in the discharge of the CO’s responsibilities.  The COR is responsible for monitoring, giving progress reports to the CO, and overall technical surveillance of services to be performed under this delivery order and should be contacted regarding questions or problems of a technical nature.  In no event will any understanding or agreement, modification, change order, or other matter deviating from the terms of the basic delivery order between the Contractor and any person other than the CO be effective or binding upon the Government.  



When, in the opinion of the Contractor, the COR requests effort outside the existing scope of the delivery order, the Contractor shall promptly notify the CO in writing.  



No action will be taken by the Contractor under such technical instruction unless the CO has issued a contractual change.



The responsibilities of the COR include, but are not limited to, the following:



Serve as the point-of-contact through which the Contractor can relay questions or problems of a technical nature to the CO;  	

Be responsible for the inspection and acceptance of the services performed and determining the adequacy of performance by the Contractor in accordance with the terms and conditions of this delivery order; 

Conferring with representatives of the Contractor regarding any non-performance or unsatisfactory performance; following through to assure that all non-performance or unsatisfactory performance is performed/corrected or payment adjustment is recommended to the CO;

Review and certify invoices in accordance with invoicing instructions of the delivery order.  Maintain a file with copies of these documents;  

Review and evaluate Contractor’s estimates, and furnish comments and recommendations to the CO;

Advise the CO of any performance problems and make recommendations for corrective action to correct performance issues;

Furnish the CO with any requests for change, deviation, or waiver (whether generated by Government personnel or Contractor personnel), including all supporting paperwork in connection with such change, deviation, or waiver; and 

Submit a written evaluation to the CO within 60 days of delivery order completion.  The evaluation must include: 



The quality and timeliness of the Contractor’s performance; and 

A statement as to the uses made of any deliverables furnished by the Contractor.  



In addition to the specific duties as listed above, the COR is also responsible for knowing the employment status of the Contractor’s employees, and to notify NASS of changes in personnel status.  The COR also ensures that the Contractor’s employees return the  issued identification and the proximity card for AII when they no longer need access to the buildings.  The COR’s signature is required on the Contractor’s Identification Card Authorization in order for the Contractor’s employee to be issued a  identification badge and a proximity card in the case of an AII work site.  An identification badge and proximity card will not be issued without a signed Authorization that includes an expiration date.  Please refer to  Directive 272 for more information on Contractor’s employees’ identification badge and proximity card issuance.

Invoice Submission Requirements 

Invoices should be submitted electronically to the following e-mail address:



NAR@BPD.TREAS..  



Protected Microsoft Excel files are the preferred format.  However, Adobe Acrobat Portable Document Format (PDF) and Microsoft word are also acceptable.  To receive a free notification of your electronic payment, register at .



If electronic invoices are not possible, all original invoices (plus two copies) submitted for payment shall be sent to:



ARC//NAR

ARC//NAR Avery 3F

Bureau of Public Debt

PO Box 1328

Parkersburg, WV 26106-1328



For Bureau of Public Debt paying office (ARC//NAR) payment and invoice questions, call 304-480-7000



The Contract Specialist and the COR identified must be sent a copy of all invoices.  



The invoice shall include the following information and/or attached documentation:

Name of the business concern and invoice date;

The complete contract number and/or task/delivery order number preceded by the letters NAMA;

Description, price, and quantity of services actually delivered or rendered and segregated by CLIN and/or SUBCLIN number(s) including dates; any approved ODCs should be outlined accordingly ;

Payment terms;

DUNS number;

Taxpayer Identification Number ();

Government Fund Cite and /ACT Number (eight digit number preceded by the letter N); and

Government Organization ordering the items.



All invoices for services shall be submitted on a monthly basis.



All invoices will be paid using information from the Central Contractor Registration ().  Therefore, payment will be made to the EFT information that matches the DUNS number for this award.

Invoice Certification

The COR will review a copy of each invoice for correctness, services performed, etc.  The COR will certify the invoice and:

Submit it to the payment office for payment; or 

Authorize reimbursement by Government purchase card.



If the COR disagrees with the invoice, the COR will immediately:

Notify the Contracting Officer and paying office;

Withhold certification or, if applicable, Government purchase card reimbursement; 

Contact the Contractor to resolve any discrepancies; 

Obtain a corrected invoice; as appropriate; and 

Forward the corrected invoice to the paying office or authorize Government purchase card reimbursement.  



If only a portion of the invoice costs are in dispute, the CO or COR, if assigned, will certify only the undisputed costs and, as appropriate, submit the invoice to the payment office for partial payment or authorize only partial Government purchase card payment.  The COR will work with the Contractor to resolve any remaining disputed costs. 



If the COR cannot resolve the invoice discrepancy with the Contractor, or if a problem has been noted with the Contractor’s performance, the COR shall notify the Contracting Officer, in writing, with details of the problem.

Payment 

Payments will be made upon submission of a proper invoice.  Payments will be due on the 30th calendar day after receipt of a proper invoice, or on the 30th calendar day after the date the services/supplies were accepted by the government, whichever is later.



No delivery order payments will be made by check.  Invoice payments will be made electronically in accordance with FAR 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Central Contractor Registration.



The date of payment by wire transfer through the Treasury Financial Communications System must be considered to be the date payment is made.

Final Payment

Before final  payment is made, the Contractor shall furnish to the CO a written release of all claims against the Government arising by virtue of the delivery order, other than claims in stated amounts as may be specifically excluded by the Contractor from the operation of the release. If the Contractor’s claim to amounts payable under the delivery order has been assigned under the Assignment of Claims Act of 1940, as amended (31 U.S.C. 203, 41 U.S.C. 15), a release may also be requested of the assignee.  To ensure that all necessary adjustments for non-performance or unsatisfactory performance have been made and a release of claims has been submitted before the delivery order is closed out, the final  payment will be made in thirty (30) calendar days after receipt of a proper invoice, date of completion of performance, or receipt of release of claims by the CO, whichever is later.


ATTACHMENT 6 – RELEVANT PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONAIRE



To:         Evaluator

From:  the National Archives and Records Administration ()

RE:         ’s Office of Government Information Services Access System Request for Quotations (RFQ).  



You have been identified by _______________________ (vendor name) to provide a past performance evaluation for ’s RFQ for the Office of Government Information Services Access System because you provide oversight (as COR, COTR, CO, etc.) for current or recent contract performance by this contractor at your agency / firm.  



Your candid response to each question is important to our evaluation effort and may affect the award outcome.  The names of individuals supplying past performance information will remain confidential.  



Please complete and return via fax (Attn: Allen Edgar, 301-837-3227) or email to  by 24 August 2010.  Thank you in advance for your participation!



Allen Edgar

Contracting Officer, 

301-837-1489







Evaluator’s Name: ___________________	    Vendor: _________________



Please rate each item below by circling the appropriate number, and provide comments regarding specific strengths and weaknesses in each area.



A “5” is outstanding, “1” is unsatisfactory, N/O is “not observed”.























ATTACHMENT 7 – SELF-SCORING REQUIREMENTS MATRIX







Deliverable

Task

(Section)

Deliverable 

Format

Due Date

Business Days

1

4.1.1

Analysis Report

MS Word – 2007 

Within 25 business days of award

2

4.1.2

System Configuration Plan

MS Word – 2007 

Within 45 business days of award

3

4.2.4

Test Report

MS Word – 2007 

At the completion of testing.

4

4.2.6

Production Readiness Review

Meeting

At the completion of TTO.

5

4.4.1

User Training Documentation

MS Word/PowerPoint – 2007 

Within 10 business days of completed implementation

6

4.6.1

Kick-Off Meeting

Meeting



Within 5 business days of award

7

4.6.2

Project Management Plan (PMP)

MS Word/Project – 2007

Within 5 business days of award

8

4.6.2

PMP Updates

MS Word/Project – 2007

to NARA

As required

9

4.6.3

Conduct Monthly Status Meetings

Meeting

Monthly basis, dates determined at kick-off meeting.



REQUIREMENT

REQUIREMENT TEXT

Accessibility



AC-01

The OAS shall be accessible via a web browser (Microsoft IE 8 and Firefox 3.5)

AC-02

OAS shall provide role-based accessibility.

AC-03

OAS shall use two-form authentication for access.

Case Management - Capabilities to open, assign, manage, track, and close FOIA cases



CM-01

OAS shall assign unique case identifiers to remediation requests thereby initiating a case. 

CM-02

The unique identifier shall include the date of case initiation in the format of YYYYMMDD.

CM-03

OAS shall allow the capture of case metadata elements when a case gets initiated such as date, time, requestor name, and contact information. 

CM-04

OAS shall allow case type identifiers information, facilitation, collaboration and mediation, to be assigned to each case. 

CM-05

OAS shall allow authorized users and their associated roles to be added, changed and deleted.

CM-06

OAS shall allow authorized case managers and mediators to be added, changed and deleted.

CM-07

OAS shall allow a case manager to be assigned for each case, and allow the case manager to be changed.

CM-08

OAS shall allow a case mediator to be assigned for each case, and allow the case mediator to be changed.

CM-09

OAS shall allow case status designators to be assigned and changed as cases proceed through processing. Case status designators shall include open, in-process, closed and others as defined by the OGIS Office staff

CM-10

OAS shall record when case status is changed by capturing the date, time, person making the status change, person authorizing the status change. 

CM-11

OAS shall provide an activity log to allow the capture of all information associated with the processing of a case. At a minimum the activity log shall capture date, time, notes, and statuses, associated file lists, and provide a comment field.  

CM-12

OAS shall provide a follow-up feature when a case gets closed that sends final correspondence to the requester. 

CM-13

OAS shall provide duplicate request record detection and alerts on data entry for new cases.

Workflow Management - Capability to establish and manage workflow associated with FOIA cases within the OGIS and across any external stakeholders



WM-01

OAS shall allow standardized workflow streams to be named, defined, entered, changed, and deleted. 

WM-02

OAS shall restrict the definition and management of workflow streams to designated roles. 

WM-03

OAS shall allow standard workflow streams to be associated with cases. 

WM-04

OAS shall allow the workflow streams associated with cases to be modified by OGIS OAS system administrators. 

WM-05

OAS shall track all information associated with each step in OGIS workflow streams.

WM-06

OAS shall allow automated event triggers to be associated with workflow activities and workflow steps. 

WM-07

OAS shall record and track the disposition of all work activities and steps associated with a case within a workflow stream. 

WM-08

OAS shall allow rules to be associated with workflow steps and activities.

WM-09

OAS shall allow work flow steps and activities to be assigned to individuals. 

WM-10

OAS shall generate reminders or alerts to OGIS staff members when work flow rule requirements are not satisfied. 

WM-11

OAS shall record and track the disposition of all work activities assigned by individuals and roles. 

Time Tracking- Capability to the track time and effort associated with performing FOIA activities



TT-01

OAS shall allow time expended on any case to be entered.

TT-02

OAS shall allow time standardized time charging categories to be added, deleted, and changed by authorized users. 

TT-03

OAS shall allow time to be recorded only against authorized time charging categories. 

TT-04

OAS shall allow time to be entered and tracked against individual cases and discrete workflow activities within cases.  

TT-05

OAS shall allow time to be entered and tracked by individual users, user roles, and types of cases. 

TT-06

OAS shall allow time notes to be entered against any time charge. 

Correspondence - Capability to draft, review, manage, and send correspondence associated with FOIA cases



Corr-01

OAS shall allow standardized status and acknowledgement correspondence to be entered and edited. 

Corr-02

OAS shall allow non-standard correspondence to be entered and edited.

Corr-03

OAS shall allow correspondence to be entered as structured letters, informal messages or generated via integrated mail merge capabilities.  

Corr-04

OAS shall allow correspondence validation rules to be established and managed. 

Corr-05

OAS shall ensure that all automated correspondence is validated and authorized according to validation rules prior to being released. 

Corr-06

OAS shall allow correspondence to be delivered as email, U.S. mail, web-page postings, or test messages.  

Corr-07

OAS shall allow automated letter, email, report generation and delivery of authorized correspondence based upon workflow events. 

Corr-08

OAS shall store, log, and track all correspondence associated with a case. 

Document Management - Capability to intake, store, secure, and manage all types of documentation associated with FOIA cases



DM-01

OAS shall provide a documentation repository to hold information associated with a case. 

DM-02

The documentation repository shall be stored in a secure environment that is separated from the web and can guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy of the information it contains.  

DM-03

The documentation repository shall allow file folders and associated files to be established by case managers and linked with a case.

DM-04

Access to the documentation repository, and associated folders and files shall be restricted to OGIS staff and granted only to authorized users. 

DM-05

The documentation repository shall allow any file in any standard digitized file format to be stored and associated with a case (e.g., DOC, PDF, GIF, HTML, XML, TIFF, TXT, BMP, MPEG, JPEG, etc.) at the discretion of any authorized case manager.

DM-06

The documentation repository shall enable multiple versions of individual files to be tracked and managed. 

Collaboration - Capability to collaborate online regarding the processing of FOIA cases



Coll-01

OAS shall provision web-based work collaboration capabilities (such as BLOGs, WIKIs, Bulletin Boards, Digital Meetings and Discussion Forums) that are accessible to all stakeholders in a case.    

Coll-02

OAS shall provision capabilities to import and store recorded media from web-based collaboration sessions. 

Reporting - Capability to generate management reports regarding the status of individual FOIA cases or the overall FOIA case-load of the OGIS



RPT-01

OAS shall provide standard reports on the status and disposition of all case work activities by case, individual, and role.

RPT-02

OAS shall provide standard reports of all time expended against individual cases.  

RPT-03

OAS shall provide standard reports of time expended by individual users and by user roles. 

RPT-04

OAS shall provide standard reports of all time expended by types of cases.

RPT-05

OAS shall provide standard reports on cases currently open showing how long they have been open and who is assigned to them.  

RPT-06

OAS shall provide standard reports of listing metadata, documents, correspondence, and activities logged against cases.

RPT-07

OAS shall provide the ability to restrict access to standard reports and they data they contain by user and role.  

RPT-08

OAS shall provide an ad hoc query and report capability for any data attributes stored in the database – and for statistical analyses on those data attributes. 

RPT-09

OAS shall provide real-time graphical dashboard reporting for management to check case management and staff performance at a glance.

Search - Capability to search the system for text and associated documents



SRCH-01

OAS shall provided the ability to query based upon the content of any field defined in the database.

SRCH-02

OAS shall provide the ability to search the documentation repository for selected text strings.

SRCH-03

OAS shall provide search capabilities for OGIS case information within the web portal.  

Self-Service - Capability to provision web-based, self-service functionality that allows the public to access case status information, contact information, FAQs, and policy and procedure information



SS-01

OAS shall provide a self-service web-portal interface via the Internet to access selected functionality.

SS-02

The Internet interface shall provide access to Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)

SS-03

The web-portal shall provide self-service access to contacts, instructions, policies, and procedural documentation and publications associated with the FOIA, and the OGIS remediation process. 

SS-04

The web-portal shall provide links to FOIA information on other government web-sites. 

SS-05

The web-portal shall allow the public and others to initiate FOIA remediation requests.  

SS-06

The web-portal shall display case status information only to authorized individuals.

SS-07

The web portal shall provide an integrated OGIS knowledgebase, which shall provide access to OGIS case information, along with related OGIS office information and articles. 

SS-08

The knowledgebase shall be separated into internal and external websites to allow self-service options for OGIS staff and the public to find the information they need, based on their need.

SS-09

The web-portal shall provide an integrated survey/wizard capability, which based on a series of questions and responses shall lead them to the information they seek, submit a new request for information, or submit for a new case.

SS-10

The web-portal shall provide customers with the ability to request and receive knowledgebase articles via email.

SS-11

The web-portal shall provide duplicate request record detection and alerts on data entry for new requests.

Security & Privacy - Capability to identify, segregate, and secure all PII or sensitive information stored in the system



SP-01

The Internet interface shall provide and use an SSL session for communication with users when initiating a case.

SP-02

The Internet interface shall restrict access to case status information by unauthorized users.

SP-03

OAS shall secure the capture of case metadata elements when a case gets initiated via an SSL session. 

SP-04

OAS shall secure the review and update of case metadata elements for an existing case via an authorized and authenticated SSL session. 

SP-05

The documentation repository shall be isolated from and inaccessible by the Internet interface. 

SP-06

OAS shall use two-factor authentication for access to the system.

System Availability, Uptime and Backup



SA-01

The system shall perform periodic data backups: daily differentials and weekly full backups.

SA-02

The system shall be available 24x7x365 on a best effort basis.

SA-03

Should the system become unavailable, the system shall have uptime capabilities within 48 hours with no more than 24 hours of data loss.

SA-04

The system shall provide the capability to operate from a COOP site in the event of a disaster event.



REQ # 

TITLE 

DESCRIPTION 

A.1 

Access 

OAS shall determine access authorization via a set of predetermined user roles, based on appropriate security clearance, unique identifiers, and/or the business role of the user.

A.2 

Integrity 

OAS shall protect the integrity of information, ensuring that the content and context of data objects are preserved for the life of the data object. 

A.3 

Audit 

OAS shall provide the capability to track user actions in the system, such as access, creation, modification, or deletion of information, and provide the capability to generate reports on these actions. 

A.4 

Transfer 

OAS shall provide the capability for only authorized users to copy the pertinent data objects and metadata to a user-specified filename, path, or device, or to transfer information between systems. 



REQ # 

TITLE 

DESCRIPTION 

B.1 

Metadata Assignment 

OAS shall capture the appropriate metadata, including, but not limited to, NARA Metadata Standard elements, or shall provide the user with the capability to assign the appropriate metadata when the data object is created/completed. 

B.2 

Related Information Linkage 

OAS shall provide the capability to link the data object to supporting data objects and other related information, including (but not limited to) notes, attachments, electronic mail return receipts, working versions, and metadata. 

B.3 

Versioning 

When appropriate, OAS shall provide the capability to manage working copies and draft versions of data objects as they are being developed, and the capability to store and link said versions to the finished data object, and distinguish them when displayed. 

B.4 

Formatting 

OAS shall create the data object in, or convert the data object to, a format that shall ensure that the data object can be copied or viewed in the same likeness as the original, for the life of the data object, or migrated to a new format that shall preserve the content and context of the data object. 



REQ # 

TITLE 

DESCRIPTION 

C.1 

Metadata Storage Support 

OAS shall store and link metadata to the data object, so that it can be displayed when needed, and transported with the data object when a copy is made. 

C.2 

Metadata Assignment and Updating Support 

OAS shall support the capability for only authorized users to assign or modify the metadata values of data objects. 

C.3 

Record Linkage Support 

OAS shall support linkage of the data object to other related information, including (but not limited to) notes, attachments, electronic mail return receipts, working versions, and metadata. 

C.4 

Search and Retrieval Support 

OAS shall support the capability of authorized users to search and retrieve document objects and metadata. 

C.5 

Reporting Support 

OAS shall support the creation of reports related to queries, such as pending record cutoff dates, disposition eligibility, transfer eligibility, and document format type. 

C.6 

Vital Records Support 

OAS shall support requirements to ensure that vital records necessary for the continuance of NARA critical activities during and after a disaster or emergency are identified and protected. 

C.7 

Migration Support 

OAS shall support the migration of data to succeeding generations of the system as necessary, and allow metadata to remain linked with its related information when migrated to another system, or when the system is upgraded. 



REQ # 

REQ # 

TITLE 

DESCRIPTION 

D.1 



Metadata Assignment and Updating 

OAS shall allow for assignment or updating of appropriate metadata by authorized users only. 



D.1.1 

Individual Metadata Updates 

OAS shall allow authorized users to update or modify metadata by individual data object. 



D.1.2 

Global Metadata Updates 

OAS shall allow authorized users to update or modify metadata as a global replacement. 



D.1.3 

Metadata Updates by Query 

OAS shall allow authorized users to run a query and modify or update the metadata of the resultant data object set. 

D.2 



Disposition Activities 

OAS shall provide authorized users with the tools to perform disposition activities, including destruction and transfer activities. 



D.2.1 

Time Disposition 

OAS shall allow authorized users to tag data objects with time-based dispositions (i.e. "keep until X date"). 



D.2.2 

Event Disposition 

OAS shall allow authorized users to tag data objects with event-based dispositions (i.e. "keep until X event occurs"). 



D.2.3 

Time-Event Disposition 

OAS shall allow authorized users to tag data objects with time-event based dispositions (i.e. "keep until X date after X event occurs"). 

D.3 



Report Generation 

OAS shall provide authorized users with the ability to generate reports detailing: 



D.3.1 

Pending Cutoff Date 

Data objects pending cut off event 



D.3.2 

Eligible for Disposition 

Data objects which have reached their disposition date 



D.3.3 

Eligible for Transfer 

Data objects which may be transferred to another AIS or storage media 



D.3.4 

Document Format 

The type of data format (Word, WordPerfect, Excel, ASCII, etc...) in which the data object is stored 

D.4 



Hold Placement 

OAS shall provide the capability for only authorized users to extend or suspend the retention period of individual data objects or groups of data objects which are required to be retained beyond their scheduled disposition because of special circumstances that have altered the normal administrative, legal, or fiscal value of the information (court order, investigation, pending confirmation of transfer, etc...). 

D.5 



Record and Metadata Destruction 

When an authorized user approves data objects and metadata stored in the EIS for destruction, the system shall delete said data objects and metadata in such a manner that the data objects cannot be physically reconstructed. 

D.6 



Record and Metadata Migration 

OAS shall provide the capability for data objects to be migrated to succeeding generations of the system as needed, and for metadata to remain unmodified, as well as linked with its related information when migrated to another system, or when the system is upgraded. 

D.7 



File Plan Updating and Maintenance 

OAS shall provide the capability for only authorized users to enter, update, and maintain a file plan, including associating file tags with disposition instructions. 

D.8 



Validate Metadata 

OAS shall conduct logic checks and assist with error checking for required metadata elements as defined in the NARA Metadata Standards



First name:



Last name:



Email address:



Telephone:





OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



OGIS Case Tracking Log



Case ID

Requester

Date Sent

Format Received

Date Received

Assigned To

Dept/ Agency

Component

Category

Description

Acknow-ledged

Status

Date Completed

09-0001

name 1

7/11/2009

Letter

09-Sep-09

MN

VA

n/a

delay

Customer stated that 20 days have expired and no word from the Agency.

n/a

Administrative closure on 10/06/09. Requester withdrew request when records sought were received.

06-Oct-09

09-0002

name 2

8/25/2009

Letter

09-Sep-09

BG

n/a

n/a

info

Customer wanted info on filing a FOIA request.

n/a

Administrative closure on 10/22/09. Information provided.

22-Oct-09

09-0003

name 3

9/30/2009

E-mail

30-Sep-09

MN

DOE & DOL

n/a

info, denial

Customer wanted OGIS info and to inform OGIS about DOE and DOL issues.

n/a

Administrative closure on 10/07/09. Information provided.

07-Oct-09

09-0004

name 4

10/20/2009

Letter

26-Oct-09

BG

n/a

n/a

info

Info needed regarding mediation services.

n/a

Administrative closure on 10/28/09. Information provided.

28-Oct-09

09-0005

name 5

10/1/2009

E-mail

01-Oct-09

CB

HHS

FDA

agency practices

Requester complained that agency has systematically been denying requests. Appeal pending.

10/26/09

Dispute resolved via informal mediation 11/17/09.

17-Nov-09

09-0006

name 6

10/6/2009

Letter

13-Oct-09

CB

HHS

FDA

denial

Dispute between requester and agency regarding the necessary information required to perfect a request for agency to be able to respond.

10/22/09

Dispute resolved via informal mediation on 11/24/09. Requester contacted OGIS for additional assistance on 12/10/09 for a tel-con with agency.  Unable to schedule in December; completed tel-con1/15/10.

24-Nov-09



Evaluator’s Name



Phone



Email



Firm / Agency



Role (COR, etc)







Vendor’s Name



Role



Prime or Sub







Contract / Task Order Number



Type (i.e., fixed-price, T&M)



Start / End Dates



Description of Work



Total Value (all years)





A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).

A1.  Quality of Products or Services: Assess the contractor’s conformance to contract requirements, specifications, and standards of good workmanship (e.g., technical, professional, environmental, or safety and health standards).



Issue Anticipation/Prevention

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Process Improvement

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Incorporation of Lessons Learned

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Thoroughness

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Extent deliverables were complete and accurate

5

4

3

2

1





Overall Quality

5

4

3

2

1

N/O

















Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):



































































A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 

A2.  Proficiency in: 



Program/Project Management 

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Creation/Configuration of public portal web page to include knowledge base and FAQs















Application Support

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Server and Network Maintenance Support

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Data and Application Hosting

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Integration with Email / File / Print Services

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Security Support

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Help Desk Support

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Data Migration

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Managing Licenses and Maintenance Renewal

5

4

3

2

1

N/O

















Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):



































































B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).

B.  Timeliness of Performance - Assess the timeliness of the contractor against the completion of the contract, task orders, milestones, delivery schedules, administrative requirements (e.g., efforts that contribute to or affect the schedule variance).



Extent to which performance objectives were met on schedule

Extent to which performance objectives were met on schedule

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Extent to which deliverables were provided on time

Extent to which deliverables were provided on time

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Extent to which Invoices were submitted on time 

Extent to which Invoices were submitted on time 

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



















Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):





























































































C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).

C.  Cost Control – Assess the contractor’s effectiveness in forecasting, managing, and controlling contract costs (*Do not rate this item for Firm Fixed Priced contracts).





Performed Within Estimates

5

4

3

2

1

N/O





Cost Consciousness

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



















Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):











































































D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract

D.  Business Relations – Assess the integration and coordination of relationships needed to execute the contract



Business/Contracting Relations

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Response to Change

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Subcontract Management

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Interaction with End Users

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Extent of End User Satisfaction

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Responsiveness

5

4

3

2

1

N/O



Problem Resolution

5

4

3

2

1

N/O

















Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):

Comments (List specific strengths and weaknesses):



































































2.  Overall Assessment: (please circle):

2.  Overall Assessment: (please circle):

2.  Overall Assessment: (please circle):

2.  Overall Assessment: (please circle):

2.  Overall Assessment: (please circle):

2.  Overall Assessment: (please circle):

5

4

3

2

1

NOT OBSERVED

Comments (List any major strengths and major weaknesses):

Comments (List any major strengths and major weaknesses):

Comments (List any major strengths and major weaknesses):

Comments (List any major strengths and major weaknesses):

Comments (List any major strengths and major weaknesses):

Comments (List any major strengths and major weaknesses):



















































3.  Has any adverse past performance information that is identified above been shared with the Contractor?



(   ) Yes: Written or Oral? 

               Date__________      

(   ) No:   may provide the Contractor with an opportunity to respond to any adverse past performance information.

(   ) N/A





Requirement

Description

Has feature? (Y/N)

Notes or comments

Accessibility

Accessibility

Accessibility

Accessibility

AC-01

The OAS shall be accessible via a web browser (Microsoft IE 8 and Firefox 3.5)





AC-02

OAS shall provide role-based accessibility.





AC-03

OAS shall use two-form authentication for access.





Case Management - Capabilities to open, assign, manage, track, and close FOIA cases

Case Management - Capabilities to open, assign, manage, track, and close FOIA cases

Case Management - Capabilities to open, assign, manage, track, and close FOIA cases

Case Management - Capabilities to open, assign, manage, track, and close FOIA cases

CM-01

OAS shall assign unique case identifiers to remediation requests thereby initiating a case. 





CM-02

The unique identifier shall include the date of case initiation in the format of YYYYMMDD.





CM-03

OAS shall allow the capture of case metadata elements when a case gets initiated such as date, time, requestor name, and contact information. 





CM-04

OAS shall allow case type identifiers information, facilitation, collaboration and mediation, to be assigned to each case. 





CM-05

OAS shall allow authorized users and their associated roles to be added, changed and deleted.





CM-06

OAS shall allow authorized case managers and mediators to be added, changed and deleted.





CM-07

OAS shall allow a case manager to be assigned for each case, and allow the case manager to be changed.





CM-08

OAS shall allow a case mediator to be assigned for each case, and allow the case mediator to be changed.





CM-09

OAS shall allow case status designators to be assigned and changed as cases proceed through processing. Case status designators shall include open, in-process, closed and others as defined by the OGIS Office staff





CM-10

OAS shall record when case status is changed by capturing the date, time, person making the status change, person authorizing the status change. 





CM-11

OAS shall provide an activity log to allow the capture of all information associated with the processing of a case. At a minimum the activity log shall capture date, time, notes, and statuses, associated file lists, and provide a comment field.  





CM-12

OAS shall provide a follow-up feature when a case gets closed that sends final correspondence to the requester. 





CM-13

OAS shall provide duplicate request record detection and alerts on data entry for new cases.





Workflow Management - Capability to establish and manage workflow associated with FOIA cases within the OGIS and across any external stakeholders

Workflow Management - Capability to establish and manage workflow associated with FOIA cases within the OGIS and across any external stakeholders

Workflow Management - Capability to establish and manage workflow associated with FOIA cases within the OGIS and across any external stakeholders

Workflow Management - Capability to establish and manage workflow associated with FOIA cases within the OGIS and across any external stakeholders

WM-01

OAS shall allow standardized workflow streams to be named, defined, entered, changed, and deleted. 





WM-02

OAS shall restrict the definition and management of workflow streams to designated roles. 





WM-03

OAS shall allow standard workflow streams to be associated with cases. 





WM-04

OAS shall allow the workflow streams associated with cases to be modified by OGIS OAS system administrators. 





WM-05

OAS shall track all information associated with each step in OGIS workflow streams.





WM-06

OAS shall allow automated event triggers to be associated with workflow activities and workflow steps. 





WM-07

OAS shall record and track the disposition of all work activities and steps associated with a case within a workflow stream. 





WM-08

OAS shall allow rules to be associated with workflow steps and activities.





WM-09

OAS shall allow work flow steps and activities to be assigned to individuals. 





WM-10

OAS shall generate reminders or alerts to OGIS staff members when work flow rule requirements are not satisfied. 





WM-11

OAS shall record and track the disposition of all work activities assigned by individuals and roles. 





Time Tracking- Capability to the track time and effort associated with performing FOIA activities

Time Tracking- Capability to the track time and effort associated with performing FOIA activities

Time Tracking- Capability to the track time and effort associated with performing FOIA activities

Time Tracking- Capability to the track time and effort associated with performing FOIA activities

TT-01

OAS shall allow time expended on any case to be entered.





TT-02

OAS shall allow time standardized time charging categories to be added, deleted, and changed by authorized users. 





TT-03

OAS shall allow time to be recorded only against authorized time charging categories. 





TT-04

OAS shall allow time to be entered and tracked against individual cases and discrete workflow activities within cases.  





TT-05

OAS shall allow time to be entered and tracked by individual users, user roles, and types of cases. 





TT-06

OAS shall allow time notes to be entered against any time charge. 





Correspondence - Capability to draft, review, manage, and send correspondence associated with FOIA cases

Correspondence - Capability to draft, review, manage, and send correspondence associated with FOIA cases

Correspondence - Capability to draft, review, manage, and send correspondence associated with FOIA cases

Correspondence - Capability to draft, review, manage, and send correspondence associated with FOIA cases

Corr-01

OAS shall allow standardized status and acknowledgement correspondence to be entered and edited. 





Corr-02

OAS shall allow non-standard correspondence to be entered and edited.





Corr-03

OAS shall allow correspondence to be entered as structured letters, informal messages or generated via integrated mail merge capabilities.  





Corr-04

OAS shall allow correspondence validation rules to be established and managed. 





Corr-05

OAS shall ensure that all automated correspondence is validated and authorized according to validation rules prior to being released. 





Corr-06

OAS shall allow correspondence to be delivered as email, U.S. mail, web-page postings, or test messages.  





Corr-07

OAS shall allow automated letter, email, report generation and delivery of authorized correspondence based upon workflow events. 





Corr-08

OAS shall store, log, and track all correspondence associated with a case. 





Document Management - Capability to intake, store, secure, and manage all types of documentation associated with FOIA cases

Document Management - Capability to intake, store, secure, and manage all types of documentation associated with FOIA cases

Document Management - Capability to intake, store, secure, and manage all types of documentation associated with FOIA cases

Document Management - Capability to intake, store, secure, and manage all types of documentation associated with FOIA cases

DM-01

OAS shall provide a documentation repository to hold information associated with a case. 





DM-02

The documentation repository shall be stored in a secure environment that is separated from the web and can guarantee the confidentiality, integrity, availability, and privacy of the information it contains.  





DM-03

The documentation repository shall allow file folders and associated files to be established by case managers and linked with a case.





DM-04

Access to the documentation repository, and associated folders and files shall be restricted to OGIS staff and granted only to authorized users. 





DM-05

The documentation repository shall allow any file in any standard digitized file format to be stored and associated with a case (e.g., DOC, PDF, GIF, HTML, XML, TIFF, TXT, BMP, MPEG, JPEG, etc.) at the discretion of any authorized case manager.





DM-06

The documentation repository shall enable multiple versions of individual files to be tracked and managed. 





Collaboration - Capability to collaborate online regarding the processing of FOIA cases

Collaboration - Capability to collaborate online regarding the processing of FOIA cases

Collaboration - Capability to collaborate online regarding the processing of FOIA cases

Collaboration - Capability to collaborate online regarding the processing of FOIA cases

Coll-01

OAS shall provision web-based work collaboration capabilities (such as BLOGs, WIKIs, Bulletin Boards, Digital Meetings and Discussion Forums) that are accessible to all stakeholders in a case.    





Coll-02

OAS shall provision capabilities to import and store recorded media from web-based collaboration sessions. 





Reporting - Capability to generate management reports regarding the status of individual FOIA cases or the overall FOIA case-load of the OGIS

Reporting - Capability to generate management reports regarding the status of individual FOIA cases or the overall FOIA case-load of the OGIS

Reporting - Capability to generate management reports regarding the status of individual FOIA cases or the overall FOIA case-load of the OGIS

Reporting - Capability to generate management reports regarding the status of individual FOIA cases or the overall FOIA case-load of the OGIS

RPT-01

OAS shall provide standard reports on the status and disposition of all case work activities by case, individual, and role.





RPT-02

OAS shall provide standard reports of all time expended against individual cases.  





RPT-03

OAS shall provide standard reports of time expended by individual users and by user roles. 





RPT-04

OAS shall provide standard reports of all time expended by types of cases.





RPT-05

OAS shall provide standard reports on cases currently open showing how long they have been open and who is assigned to them.  





RPT-06

OAS shall provide standard reports of listing metadata, documents, correspondence, and activities logged against cases.





RPT-07

OAS shall provide the ability to restrict access to standard reports and they data they contain by user and role.  





RPT-08

OAS shall provide an ad hoc query and report capability for any data attributes stored in the database – and for statistical analyses on those data attributes. 





RPT-09

OAS shall provide real-time graphical dashboard reporting for management to check case management and staff performance at a glance.





Search - Capability to search the system for text and associated documents

Search - Capability to search the system for text and associated documents

Search - Capability to search the system for text and associated documents

Search - Capability to search the system for text and associated documents

SRCH-01

OAS shall provided the ability to query based upon the content of any field defined in the database.





SRCH-02

OAS shall provide the ability to search the documentation repository for selected text strings.





SRCH-03

OAS shall provide search capabilities for OGIS case information within the web portal.  





Self-Service - Capability to provision web-based, self-service functionality that allows the public to access case status information, contact information, FAQs, and policy and procedure information

Self-Service - Capability to provision web-based, self-service functionality that allows the public to access case status information, contact information, FAQs, and policy and procedure information

Self-Service - Capability to provision web-based, self-service functionality that allows the public to access case status information, contact information, FAQs, and policy and procedure information

Self-Service - Capability to provision web-based, self-service functionality that allows the public to access case status information, contact information, FAQs, and policy and procedure information

SS-01

OAS shall provide a self-service web-portal interface via the Internet to access selected functionality.





SS-02

The Internet interface shall provide access to Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)





SS-03

The web-portal shall provide self-service access to contacts, instructions, policies, and procedural documentation and publications associated with the FOIA, and the OGIS remediation process. 





SS-04

The web-portal shall provide links to FOIA information on other government web-sites. 





SS-05

The web-portal shall allow the public and others to initiate FOIA remediation requests.  





SS-06

The web-portal shall display case status information only to authorized individuals.





SS-07

The web portal shall provide an integrated OGIS knowledgebase, which shall provide access to OGIS case information, along with related OGIS office information and articles. 





SS-08

The knowledgebase shall be separated into internal and external websites to allow self-service options for OGIS staff and the public to find the information they need, based on their need.





SS-09

The web-portal shall provide an integrated survey/wizard capability, which based on a series of questions and responses shall lead them to the information they seek, submit a new request for information, or submit for a new case.





SS-10

The web-portal shall provide customers with the ability to request and receive knowledgebase articles via email.





SS-11

The web-portal shall provide duplicate request record detection and alerts on data entry for new requests.





Security & Privacy - Capability to identify, segregate, and secure all PII or sensitive information stored in the system

Security & Privacy - Capability to identify, segregate, and secure all PII or sensitive information stored in the system

Security & Privacy - Capability to identify, segregate, and secure all PII or sensitive information stored in the system

Security & Privacy - Capability to identify, segregate, and secure all PII or sensitive information stored in the system

SP-01

The Internet interface shall provide and use an SSL session for communication with users when initiating a case.





SP-02

The Internet interface shall restrict access to case status information by unauthorized users.





SP-03

OAS shall secure the capture of case metadata elements when a case gets initiated via an SSL session. 





SP-04

OAS shall secure the review and update of case metadata elements for an existing case via an authorized and authenticated SSL session. 





SP-05

The documentation repository shall be isolated from and inaccessible by the Internet interface. 





SP-06

OAS shall use two-factor authentication for access to the system.





System Availability, Uptime and Backup

System Availability, Uptime and Backup

System Availability, Uptime and Backup

System Availability, Uptime and Backup

SA-01

The system shall perform periodic data backups: daily differentials and weekly full backups.





SA-02

The system shall be available 24x7x365 on a best effort basis.





SA-03

Should the system become unavailable, the system shall have uptime capabilities within 48 hours with no more than 24 hours of data loss.





SA-04

The system shall provide the capability to operate from a COOP site in the event of a disaster event.



