 PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT (PWS)

as of 30 May 2014







1.  Contracting Officer’s Representative (CORs).  



a.  Primary COR.





b.  Alternate COR.





2.  Task Order Title.  Global Content Delivery Services (GCDS)



3.  Background.   Defense Information Systems Agency (DISA) Enterprise Services (ES) is a provider of information technology (IT) solutions for the Department of Defense (DOD).  DISA requires processing, storage, communications, and content delivery services for a variety of its customer applications across DOD.  The purpose of this PWS and resulting contract is to provide state-of-the-art global content delivery capacity to meet current and future DOD customer requirements across the Defense Information System Network (DISN) and any other networks utilized by DOD users.   



DISA is required by DOD to enhance communications effectiveness through improved information interoperability.  The Under Secretary for Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (OUSD (AT&L)) has articulated a vision for transforming the information environment in the DOD.  The envisioned changes represent a fundamental paradigm shift from providing platform centric applications to platform independent, web-enabled, Net-Centric services that require the support of a ubiquitous network environment, that meet the requirements of the end users, and which are highly available, secure, and reliable.  As a result of the shift to Net-Centric services, ES requires content delivery capabilities at DISA-owned and other DISA approved processing locations, based on new missions and workload requirements. 

DISA is committed to maintaining secure information assurance (IA) and delivery of application data to geographically dispersed user communities.  Inherent in the secure delivery is the capability to encrypt data transmissions, provide the ability for public key infrastructure (PKI) enablement of distributed applications and content to authenticate individuals requesting application access, prevent inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information, and assure access controls are appropriately executed.  An additional tenet of IA is availability.  The overlay network shall be fully capable of automatically detecting, without user intervention, when a content delivery location at the edge of the network (so forth referred to as “edge”) is not available and continue to provide service without the end user experiencing outage or delay.

DISA research conducted over the last 6 years determined that the distributed computing environment will meet mission content delivery requirements for global application availability and performance. This capability shall include the ability to provide various forms of content to users at the extreme edge of the DoD managed wide area networks (WANs) employed by war fighters world-wide on both classified and unclassified networks, including the Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet), the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet), the Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS) and the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) network (a Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange (CENTRIX) network), and the Internet. Other similar networks utilized by DOD users will be deployed over time.   At a minimum the requirements detailed in this PWS shall include the ability to store and forward content in the form of web hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP ) and hypertext transfer protocol secure (HTTPS) objects of all types, distribute data and databases across the Federal and DOD networks, execute applications operating on locally available (cached) data and databases, and deliver streaming video to end user populations on disadvantaged networks throughout the world.  

Content delivery shall also include cache capabilities and the acceleration of content which is HTTP or HTTPS, utilizing compression and front end optimization or similar techniques.  The capability of streaming video and audio delivery is required at all edge locations world-wide.  This capability shall allow for a single stream of video/audio to traverse the network unbroken into multiple user streams until it reaches the edge locations worldwide.  Transcoding of the device type being used (Blackberry, Flash, etc) shall be made at the edge location in a single stream and format. Also, multiple occurrences (i.e. 3) shall be delivered across the network and have consistency in delivery to be put together at the edge to ensure a full stream without breaks is delivered to users.  The capability to automatically detect bandwidth congestion in bandwidth disadvantaged networks is required and this shall not affect the stream of data.

DISA recognizes the importance of delivery of Domain Name Service (DNS) from remote edge locations to meet the availability of DNS service on both NIPRNet and SIPRNet and various other networks.  The contractor shall, without human intervention, integrate and utilize existing DISA global DNS services.  Source NATing shall be disabled on all GCDS related systems, components and equipment.



4.  Objectives.  The objective is to obtain reliable, responsive, and cost effective content delivery services that are dynamically scalable and utilize an on-demand service approach to support DISA and other DISA-approved locations in the continental United States (CONUS) and outside of the continental United States (OCONUS).  



Service shall provide two to ten times an increase in performance upon achieving full operational capability (FOC) and a minimum of 50% bandwidth offload from the origin server.  



The service provider shall procure, install, uninstall, transport, perform power up configuration, and provide all areas of hardware, technical personnel, software, data replication services, hardware/software upgrades, maintenance, replacement, and disposal.  Additional procurements will include the provision of switches, servers, racks, RPDU’s, UPS devices, SAN or NAS devices, and monitoring/reporting software used to support the content delivery services at all locations worldwide.  This includes Naval vessels or tactical locations. The service provider shall provide full Network Operations Command Center (NOCC) capability and support for all service offerings.



The acquisition of all IA- and IA-enabled GOTS IT products is limited to products that have been evaluated by the NSA or in accordance with NSA-approved processes. The acquisition of all IA- and IA-enabled COTS IT products is limited to products that have been evaluated or validated through one of the following sources - the International Common Criteria (CC) for Information Security Technology Evaluation Mutual Recognition Arrangement, the NIAP Evaluation and Validation Program, or the FIPS validation program. Robustness requirements, the mission, and customer needs will enable an experienced information systems security engineer to recommend a Protection Profile, a particular evaluated product or a security target with the appropriate assurance requirements for a product to be submitted for evaluation.



5.  Scope.  The Contractor will accredit, deliver, install, maintain and dispose GCDS capacity infrastructure in concert with the Government, at any of the current DISA ESD computing facilities or future DISA ESD computing facilities in the continental US (CONUS), outside CONUS (OCONUS) and other DISA or DISA approved locations worldwide. Service shall be integrated IAW DISA and DoD policies.  The objective is for the Contractor to provide content delivery services using a “utility based contract concept”. This utility concept requires that the Contractor provide all assets and services needed for the content delivery service, with the exception of type I cryptographic devices, firewalls, and intrusion detection systems (IDS). These assets shall include, but are not limited to, hardware, software, software maintenance and licensing, design capabilities, logistical support, field maintenance, and engineering support. These services will also include, but are not limited to, installation, racking and stacking of equipment, cabling, powering of device, and configuration related to the deployment and sustainment of the provided GCDS service. The scope shall also include transitioning existing and new customer applications. Contractor shall provide customer outreach activities.    



This initiative will support unclassified and classified networks including SCI level environments:



Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet)

Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet)

Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS)Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange (CENTRIX)/International Security Assistance Force (ISAF)

Similar type networks deployed over time



6.0  Performance Requirements



6.1 Task 1 – Global Content Delivery System Support



6.1.1 Subtask 1.1: Technical Requirements

The Contractor will  accredit, deliver, install, maintain and dispose GCDS capacity infrastructure in concert with the Government, at any of the current  DISA ESD computing facilities or future DISA ESD computing facilities in the continental US (CONUS), outside CONUS (OCONUS) and other DISA or DISA approved locations worldwide. Service shall be integrated IAW DISA and DoD policies. DoD requires all systems services to be IPv6 compatible.  



6.1.2 Subtask 1.2: Supported Networks: This service shall support unclassified and classified networks including SCI level environments:



6.1.2.1 Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet)

6.1.2.2 Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet)

6.1.2.3 Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System (JWICS) 

6.1.2.4 Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange (CENTRIX)/ International Security Assistance Force (ISAF) 

6.1.2.5 Similar type networks deployed over time



6.1.3 Subtask 1.3: Ancillary Components The contractor shall provide solutions that include all required ancillary components such as racks, cables, power cables, etc.   See Attachment 2 for rack and power details.



Deliverable/s:  Solutions that conform to rack and power details identified in Attachment 2.



6.1.3.1: All GCDS hardware deployed  in austere environments (see section 9.1.3), to include tactical  Edge, shall be solid state devices.



6.1.4 Subtask 1.4: Accredited Global Content Delivery Service 



The contractor shall provide a fully DoD certified and accredited content delivery solution, which can be deployed globally, provide network storage and management of content, maximize bandwidth, deliver static, dynamic and streaming content,  cache management, load balancing, and offer performance measurement /reporting capabilities. Contractor provided content delivery solution shall be managed and maintained by the contractor, and shall be subject to DOD certification and accreditation processes. Certification and accreditation must be achieved before the first order can be placed. 



6.1.5 Subtask 1.5: Provide Security Accreditation

The contractor shall work with DISA to implement DOD security standards and Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs), scan systems, record results (currently employing VMS), and complete Plan of Action and Milestones (POA&Ms).  The contractor shall also provide technical input, such as ports and protocols, to the DOD certification and accreditation package.  Contractor shall provide support for the creation and deployment of security patches as dictated by IAVAs that are applicable to the software; this includes performing scanning, recording results (currently employing VMS) and running reports. The contractor shall provide support for yearly Security Testing and Evaluation audits by the DISA Field Security Operations (FSO) Staff.  



6.1.5.1 Subtask 1.5.1: The GCDS deployed on the DISN in satisfaction of the service request must meet applicable DoD and DISA security regulations and standards.  It is the responsibility of the service provider to maintain the systems in accordance with these and, using any system or systems specified by DISA, to properly document the system’s security posture and currency under existing IAVA program.  Contractor shall comply with DoD patch management procedures (DoD currently uses WSUS and HBSS).



The contractor shall ensure that all contractor infrastructure, servers and workstations connected to the DISN and/or containing customer sensitive data are configured in compliance with the DISA STIG applicable for that operating system.



The contractor shall comply with the following DoD-approved architectures, programs, standards and guidelines: 



DoD Instruction 8510.01, DoD Information Assurance Certification and Accreditation Process (DIACAP),

DoD Directive 8500.1, "Information Assurance (IA)," October 24, 2002

DoD Instruction 8500.2, "Information Assurance (IA) Implementation," February 6, 2003

DoD Instruction 8551.1, "Ports, Protocols, and Services Management (PPSM)," August13, 2004

DoD CSC-STD-002-85, "DOD Password Management Guideline," April 12, 1985

CJCSM 6510.01, "Defense-in-Depth: Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network

Defense (CND)", March 25, 2003

DoD CM-400-260-01, "Software Requirements Specification (SRS) for the Network

Management (NM) Functional Area Of The Defense Information Infrastructure

(DII)," July 8, 1997

DoD Directive Number 3020.26, Continuity of Operations (COOP) Policy and Planning,

May 26, 1995

DoD Instruction Number 3020.39, Integrated Continuity Planning for Defense

Intelligence, ASD (C3I), August 3, 2001

DoD Directive Number O-8530.1, Computer Network Defense (CND), January 8, 2001

Defense Information Systems Agency Instruction (DISAI) 630-230-19, "Security

Requirements for Automated Information Systems (AIS)," August 1991, and Supplements

1 and 2, not dated . ASD (NII) Memo, "Internet Protocol Version 6" (IPv6), June 9, 2003

DoD Directive 8570.1 Information Assurance Training, Certification, and Workforce Management

DoD 8570.1M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program

DoDM 8530.1-M

CJCS Manual 6510.01, Defense-In-Depth, Information Assurance (IA) and Computer Network Defense (CDNDoD Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs)FSO Process Guides

FSO Penetration SOP

FSO Security Features User Guide (SFUG)

FSO Security Review Methodology

FSO Risk Assessment Guide

National Security Agency (NSA) Security Guides

Netcentric Enterprise Services (NCES) Framework

Section 508 Accessibility Standards as appropriate

DoD 5200.2-RM DOD Personnel Security Program

DISAI 240-110-36, Personnel Security

DoD 5220.22-M, National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual

DoD 5220.22-R, Industrial Security Regulation

Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS)140-2 Compliance

NIST Special Publication 800-53 r4 Security and Privacy Controls for Federal Information Systems and Organizations, April 2013



6.1.6 Subtask 1.6: Rapid Deployment of GCDS for emergency responses – The contractor shall be able to rapidly deploy service to austere locations using innovative solutions such as a compact mobile node at the edge of the network. New edges shall be maintained by the contractor while the edge is deployed, and bring the edge down (decommission) at the direction of the government.  This node must have the capability to function as any other node at the edge of the network and must be able to deliver content, stream video and audio and work to reduce the page size and optimize page render time. This deployable unit must be a maximum of 4U, which includes all necessary equipment to function independently.  The unit must be all solid state with a box that is dust resistant and can withstand, without degradation, a max high temperature of 122F with a range of 15% to 90% humidity and  a max low of 32F with a range of 15% to 90% humidity. GCDS shall be able to provide a deployable 4U Edge racked in a shock travel case.  The edge must be up and running in a GCDS production environment at either a vender location or Chambersburg  location as to meet a minimum of 24 hr notice for shipping to CONUS and OCONUS locations.  This edge will be employed to support crisis and/or federal disasters. 



6.1.7 Subtask 1.7: Electrical Power Configuration- The unit must be configured with a  standard electrical plug fully compatible with the area of deployment (adapter if necessary) as well as an Ethernet connection.  Neither of these plugs/wires can jeopardize the integrity of the case.  



6.1.8 Subtask 1.8: Origin Load Balancing- GCDS shall provide the capability to load balance between multiple application origins and edge points for each application based on configurable network conditions to reduce perceived latency and optimize performance.  The solution will align demand with resources and resources with demand to maximize throughput, minimize response time, combat “flash crowds”, and increase reliability.  GCDS shall automatically direct traffic away from an origin should the origin not be reachable or have network problems which reduce the origin server from not being optimal to the delivery of traffic to the global edge locations.



6.1.8.1 Node load balancing: GCDS node servers must be able to load balance for DoD applications that require session stickiness.



6.1.9 Subtask 1.9: The contractor shall ensure the GCDS solution will interface, without capability loss or degradation, with Government firewalls (currently employing Juniper), IDS (currently using Sourcefires or Securify), and cryptography.



6.1.10 Subtask 1.10: The GCDS shall provide the capability to validate user credentials from a Common Access Card  (CAC) , Smart Card or other authentication methods from the established edge locations based on  DoD standards utilizing a revocation list created from an Online Certificate Status Protocol (OCSP) responder.



6.1.11 Subtask 1.11: GCDS SSL Delivery

GCDS delivers both static as well as dynamic content. To ensure dynamic content delivery, contractor shall provide the capability to perform SSL processing and certificate management at the scale required to handle encrypted SSL tunnels.  Each GCDS edge location shall have the capability of independently passing and handling SSL applications. Within the scope of dynamic content, the contractor shall provide the capability to support logic for statements, conditionally assembling fragmented HTML content to enable separation of dynamic pages into cacheable and un-cacheable components, while improving application performance by minimizing the amount of content that needs to be retrieved from the origin server for that application.

 6.1.11.1 Support Non-HTTP/S: Contractor shall provide support for Non-HTTP/S applications with highly dynamic data. Service shall accelerate delivery of TCP protocols such as virtual desktops/client server apps as well as interactive web conferencing, virtualized applications over Citrix ICA and Microsoft RDP protocols, and accommodate large files transferred through secure FTP or SSH to meet a minimum threshold of 30 seconds for files equal or exceeding 100MB.  Capabilities shall  employing real time  route optimization to support the acceleration and delivery of dynamic content.

6.1.12 Subtask 1.12 Customer Portal: The contractor shall provide a customer portal for GCDS customers to control essential aspects of service delivery for their applications, provision simple services, obtain statistics of how the service is delivering applications, provide alerts when thresholds are exceeded, and information with logs which can easily be accessed and made into reports with information readily stored for one year.  Customers shall be able to purge their own content in the cases of spillage and cache issues automatically from a purge button on the portal for that application owner.  The customer application portal shall only display  the content for that application owner,  and shall be authenticated and validated in compliance with OSCP guidance.  The portal shall also display to the user the capability to view areas of their application, Uniform Resource Locators (URLs), and the usage in Mb/month, MB/month, GB/month or Gb/month in a report format.  All data from the portal shall be conformed to allow users to create reports from that data and produce them in a Portable Document Format (PDF) file, a raw data file and an Excel data file at a minimum.

 6.1.12.1 Subtask 1.12.1 GCDS PM Dashboard: GCDS shall include a management dashboard that allows GCDS PMO to review the status of applications, run reports, gather statistics, and see a view.  

6.1.13 Subtask 1.13- Adverse Network Detection: This service shall detect adverse network conditions immediately and demonstrate the ability to continuously and efficiently obtain and distribute applications and content to end users.  The service shall provide a visual tool to provide the GISMC, TNCs, and others the capability to view network conditions and create reports for these conditions. This application shall be CAC enabled and communicate in real time.

This content shall be provided by the best performing source infrastructure relative to the end user (such as from a region in closest topological proximity to the end user) with the goal of providing optimal performance from the perspective of that user. 

6.1.14 Subtask 1.14-GEO Location:  The GCDS shall provide a global map application, which displays latitude, longitude, country, state and city for an IP address of an end user in real-time, automatically with attributes gained from network heuristics from the GCDS edges placed globally.  This information shall be incorporated to allow for identification of an end users location in real-time.

6.1.15 Subtask 1.15 Cache Content: The contractor shall provide capability to cache all content browsed by end users, whether on GCDS or not.  GCDS service shall automatically apply developed metadata for the end user.  If the application requested by the end user does not have metadata established for the application requested by the end user, then the GCDS service shall determine the cacheable content in the application automatically and apply this cacheable content to the GCDS cache at that edge location.  This capability is required to reduce transport costs across the DISN.  GCDS shall act as a forward cache providing non-GCDS traffic (DoD sites not on GCDS or Internet sites), making intelligent decisions on caching the content at the edge location, the capability to fragment an application page into cacheable content as to allow for a statement or a section of metadata to be excluded from the cache, providing that cache content to others at that edge location, and storing that cache at that established edge location.  The edge location cache must handle any cache from any content provider  for example Internet, Facebook, YouTube, CNN,  and FoxNews (examples).  



6.1.15.1 Subtask 1.15.1Advanced Cache Controls: Provide the capabilities within GCDS to automatically modify an objects cache label (or cache key) to contain only URL components and request attributes that are appropriate for the defined content.  Items within the content such as IP address, header or cookies shall be able to be automatically determined as the cache key as opposed to the URL. Contractor shall also provide for session management, with GCDS being capable of generating redirects acting on behalf of the application, following redirects on behalf of the end user or even the ability to tweak an HTTP header to accommodate unique configurations.



6.1.16 Subtask 1.16 Enterprise Recursive Service (ERS) Compatibility: The purpose of the ERS program is to provide centralized control of recursive DNS queries on the NIPRNET. To implement this control, each local recursive name server is configured to forward all queries from local end-users to a set of IP Anycast-enabled ERS servers. ERS functionally acts as a DNS proxy; it will recursively resolve the forwarded requests. With ERS in place, all external DNS queries can be controlled via policy as directed by the Cyber Command. Under this scheme, all authoritative name servers will see IP addresses of ERS rather than the more numerous and distributed local name servers. GCDS must be able to coexist with the ERS application and not adversely affect ERS’s functionality or allow ERS to adversely affect its functionality and mission to provide dramatic performance increases in availability, fault tolerance, and security for critical DoD web applications.



6.1.17 Subtask 1.17 PKI/CAC enabled applications for non-SharePoint sites: the solution must be able to recognize and take correct action for DoD certificates and non-DoD certificates, extract CAC info and forward to application for authorization for role based access.



6.1.18 Subtask 1.18 PKI/CAC enabled applications for SharePoint sites: the solution shall re-sign the certificate and send it forward to SharePoint environment for authentication and authorization.



6.1.19 Subtask 1.19: The solution shall provide established edge locations at the edge of the network the ability to solely validate with the applications source (origin) server (in various locations globally) before providing the application content to the end user or denying application content to the end user  without a reach back to a central repository. Support HTTP basic authentication and form based login at the node located at the edge of the network.  Upon denial from the origin application server, the node at the edge of the network will automatically provide a customized error page for that application indicating the denial to the end user.



6.1.20 Subtask 1.20 Global Network Operations Support 24 x 7: The NETOPS tool includes the following features:


Active sensors distributed worldwide monitoring network performance

Sensors setup to do tests such as pings, DNS lookup and downloads of an HTTP object

Provides an aggregated view over any time period and at any rate which the end user requires for the tests to be run between any GCDS location and any IP routable assets on the NIPRNet and SIPRNet

Early warning for network activity

Provides alerts and situational awareness

Provides a baseline and monitoring changes in baseline

Provide alerts if differs from baseline for that reporting of a point to point test

Passive sensors distributed worldwide monitoring intrusive activity

While sitting in un-advertised IP space, the sensor will listen for any activity

Records the IP address and port for which the intrusive activity is coming from

That information is then relayed to the portal to be displayed

One year worth of data for comparison would be stored for the portal

This tool will be fully supported by the 24X7 NOCC

Utilize passive tools which are compatible with intrusion detection devices which are utilized today as Sourcefire IDS’s.

The contractor will perform one free relocation of a GCDS sensor location at the edge of the network per fiscal year



6.2 Task 2 GCDS Repository with Global Traffic Management (GTM):

The service shall meet the requirement for a global traffic management solution that provides both performance mapping and automatic testing of websites to ensure customer facing content has optimal responsiveness and availability to user requests.  The solution shall provide global traffic management service in a fault tolerant system that makes intelligent routing decisions based on real-time server and WAN conditions.  The service will help customers balance traffic between origin datacenters across the WAN.


The Contractor monitors Web site availability through widely-deployed points-of-presence to capture WAN traffic conditions relative to the customer’s datacenters. Based on these conditions, customer-specific policy rules are evaluated against real-time WAN traffic conditions.  
The contractor will provide full NOCC capability and support for the global traffic management and repository services on NIPRNet and SIPRNet 24X7X365.


There are three service variants:
1. Failover
The Failover feature monitors the primary website datacenter and can automatically direct requests to alternate locations when there is a failure at the primary site.
2. IP Intelligence 
Requests can be directed to datacenters based upon IP rules.
3. Performance


Requests can be directed through policy rules that feature percentage-based load balancing and load feedback.  This allows for server specific load balancing within a datacenter.



6.2.1 Subtask 2.1 DNS Resolution: The service employed shall use resolution consistent with the Internet Protocol (IP) standard DNS or other technologies to direct users of the service to the best performing infrastructure that will provide content or execute an application for those remote users.  The domain name resolution or other technology provided by the service shall be integrated into the technology of delivery to eliminate any incompatibilities, technology inconsistencies, or any other interoperability problems which could adversely impact a user if a region becomes unavailable mid-session.  The service shall inherently provide the capability to determine which of the diverse infrastructures is appropriately loaded to service the users.  Therefore, DISA accepts that the underlying algorithmic rationale for domain name resolution is assumed to be proprietary and possibly a trade secret or otherwise intellectual property of the contractor.  The service shall also be aware of its own geographic and topological diversity to optimize routes between regional infrastructures to provide application level routing over the WAN, both to and from origin applications and to and from user bases.  The service shall be able to utilize various storage infrastructures, both local and remote, to provide best value for rapid delivery of data to end users.  The service shall be effectively self-aware relative to its infrastructure capabilities (meaning system outages, network latencies, diminished capacity or degraded performance of any type for the various dispersed nodes) to most effectively utilize those components, nodes, regions, etcetera to limit the negative impacts of any degradation.  SIPRNet and NIPRNet and other classified/unclassified network connections shall be provided to the contractor facility not to exceed a DS-3line, if the Government requires this capability. 



6.2.1.1 TCP Optimization: The contractor shall provide for Terminal Control Protocol (TCP) Optimization. The contractor shall support (through real-time network conditions and statistics) a complete understanding and knowledge of the GCDS overlay network and conditions of connections.  The TCP optimization techniques shall be utilized including the ability to initiate more aggressive TCP compressions when appropriate and to reduce packet loss by enabling error correction at the edge.



6.2.2 Subtask 2.2 WAN Traffic: GCDS shall use multiple techniques effectively and concurrently to minimize the back-end WAN traffic distributing content across regions and to deliver applications and content to end users.  The distribution of content across regions will be performed in a way or at a time when it shall have the minimal impact on network operations and available bandwidth.  GCDS shall control all accesses to origin servers providing applications and content so that no users actually access the origin servers. Security built into the GCDS shall allow for an end user to only access the content delivery edge, and that the content delivery edge shall only access the origin.  This protection is mandatory as it prohibits Distributed Denial of Service (DDOS) attacks by the attack concentrating on the content provider’s network and not the origin server.  The content provider shall ensure that if a DDOS were to occur that immediate notification would be made to the TNCs, GISMC, etc for NetOPs reporting and the capability to isolate that traffic for the DDOS into one of more edges prohibiting the network from being affected by the DDOS as a whole.



6.2.2.1 Application Firewall: The contractor shall provide the capability of a layer 7 Application Firewall within the GCDS service to prevent malicious attacks to include cross site scripting, SQL injection and  others, and shall have the capability to detect the signature of the attack and block the attack if it were to occur across the GCDS service.



6.2.2.2 Session Based Firewall:  The contractor shall provide the capability to block users from edge locations for certain identified IP blocks, and the capability to provide edge IP addresses to application providers to allow for blocking all traffic at their location besides the CNAME’d application edges which are serving their traffic.  With the GCDS application being CNAME’d over to the GCDS overlay network to prevent DDOS attacks as well as handling flash crowds and load balancing globally for the loads; the application origin server is only accessible from the GCDS edges globally, and end users accessing the application shall only access the GCDS edge locations The capability shall exist to allow certain applications to only accept data from certain edges globally. Provide the application owner the IP addresses of the edges so all unwanted traffic can be blocked at their origin, besides the GCDS edges which they have chosen to accept content from.  Also, in reverse, GCDS shall have the capability of blocking certain users from certain global edge locations based on IP blocks of the end user location within DNS.  This is a capability which is needed to block non-theater users from accessing edges which are within theater as well as other situations.

6.2.2.3 Cache Hierarchy: The contractor shall provide the capability to not only support the storage and optimal delivery of the application from the edge location, but also within the GCDS overlay network, edges shall be divided to support both parent and child edges, with parent edges having the capability of holding more cache information to support applications such as Facebook,  (users information is available, however,  data is not accessed often and usually by one or two users).  GCDS shall have the capability as needed to store infrequent used data or data used by few users to be gradually moved from a child edge to a parent edge before being removed from the GCDS overlay network. 

6.2.3 Subtask 2.3 GCDS Repository: The contractor shall provide integrated storage capability for large amounts of data (25TB-500TB) at various global existing locations (and future locations) that replicate globally between all units, two or three units, per the choice of the application owner and is integrated into the GCDS application.  



6.2.4 Repository Performance: The contractor shall provided for a GCDS Repository that facilitates fast transfer of content to Contractor edge locations by replicating content to multiple locations and by selecting the optimal location from which to retrieve content.  Replication brings content closer to the edge – this provides a significant improvement over content retrieval from a traditionally-deployed single-location customer origin deployment.



6.2.5 Repository Scalability: The contractor shall provide for a  GCDS Repository that offers scalability as customer’s content needs growth and mirroring of content to multiple locations on the NIPRNet and SIPRNet.

6.2.6 Highly Available Repository: The contractor shall provide for  Redundancy and fault tolerance are built into the GCDS Repository architecture – redundant server configurations with automatic failover, high availability repository hardware, content mirroring to multiple locations, and traffic management.

6.2.7 Intelligent Routing: The contractor shall provide for routing decisions that are based upon constant monitoring and analysis of network performance, congestion, and server load.

6.2.8 Data Mirroring: The contractor shall provide for uploaded content is that is replicated across multiple Repository centers in different locations.  This ensures fault tolerance for both high performance and high reliability.



6.2.9 Failover: The contractor shall provide for failover to storage based conditions of origin server i.e. 500 level response (server not found can’t be reached), 400 level response (connection to server exists but content is unavailable.  Based on user requirements GCDS could return apology page or error message.  GTM used for mapping and load balancing based on performance, load, geography and can be used as a standalone failover solution.



6.3 Task 3 GCDS High Definition (HD) Video Streaming: 

The contractor shall deliver HD video over HTTP/HTTPS, a one to many broadcast format.  The solution must have the following capabilities:

Provides for live stream and video on demand.

Ability to encrypt video stream

Ability to step up or step down the size of the video stream according current bandwidth conditions.

Broadcast video with synchronized slide view and an ask-a-question feature where the presenter can view questions from attendees

Stream on-demand video by uploading pre-recorded video for future playback

Customizable player support Digital Video Recorder (DVR)

Access Control – via token security

Adaptive bit rate



6.3.1Subtask 3.1 Flash Streaming: 

The contractor shall provide Flash streaming at a minimum with adaptive bit rate technology at the established edge locations with full DVR functionality and live streaming with streaming authentication capabilities using PKI authentication of CAC cards or Smart Cards.  



6.4 Task 4 - Industry Standards:  The contractor shall provide for  implementation of components of the Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL) will improve overall management of DISA’s storage infrastructure. Companies and Government agencies that have followed the methodologies of these models have improved their service and reliability of their processing infrastructure reducing their long-term costs.  The following ITIL principles shall be incorporated in the contractor’s proposal:

Change Management, 

Configuration Management, 

Asset Management,

Release Management.



6.4.1 Subtask 4.1 - Change Management:  An established process for handling change to the GCDS infrastructure on a continual basis shall be provided in the contractor’s proposal.  Technologies will change, software will be revised, and hardware will be phased out by the manufacture. By having a process in place to handle these inevitable events, time and money can be saved. It will also be necessary to incorporate DISA customer requests for new or revised functionality. 



6.4.2 Subtask 4.2 - Configuration Management:  An established process for managing the infrastructure’s GCDS configuration shall be provided in the contractor’s proposal.  The contractor shall provide monthly configuration/asset summary reports for configuration/asset validation by the Government.



6.4.3 Subtask 4.3 - Asset Management:  An established process for handling asset returns and redeployment shall be provided in the contractor’s proposal.



6.4.4 Subtask 4.4 - Release Management:  An established process for performing package releases to the infrastructure shall be provided in the contractor’s proposal.  Release Management works to ensure strong Configuration Management and Change Management, and works alongside Asset Management to ensure that any assets are introduced into the infrastructure correctly and with the minimum of difficulty.



Deliverable/s:  Methodology for ensuring established quality processes for change management, configuration management, asset management and release management that will integrate with DISA processes. 



6.5 Task 5 Situational Awareness: Provide situational awareness 24x7x365 to various DOD entities such as Cyber Command (CYBERCOM), the Global NetOps Support Center (GNSC), the Theater Netops Centers (TNCs) and the Global Infrastructure Service Management Center.(GISMC).  Situational awareness reporting shall provide information on how the service is performing in accordance with Network Operations (NetOps) reporting requirements.  Reporting information will be derived from the DISA ESD performance monitoring tools to include, but not limited to, the Enterprise Systems Management (ESM) toolset.  



6.5.1 Subtask 5.1- Performance Optimization: Provide solutions to optimize performance - Maintain and configure the Global Content Delivery environments to ensure that the service is optimized for flexibility and performance.



6.5.2 Subtask 5.2-Application Support: Provide solutions for application support - Maintain and configure the GCDS to ensure that it supports all application owners’ requirements including multiple large and/or complex portal style applications as well as interface with third party monitoring system for performance and availability.  



6.5.3 Subtask 5.3-Real time monitoring: Provide solutions for a near real time tool to monitor the locations at the edge to Central Communications Centers (CCCs), TNC GISMC and all other sites the PMO designates as receiving the tool.  This tool shall monitor performance being served from the edge with the capability of reaching back in logs to one year, total bandwidth being used across all edge locations in the service, the number of hits which are occurring across all the locations in the service as well as the number of hits per edge location.  



6.6 Task 6 Standard Implementation Services:

The contractor shall provide for all standard GCDS capabilities and services identified in the performance work statement (PWS).  For existing DISA customer applications, transition of applications to the GCDS platform shall support the following standard implementation services:

Standard Implementation Services are included as part of the GCDS, and allow the customer to integrate their site leveraging the following standard GCDS capabilities:

Extending the Infrastructure:

- Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) Dynamic Site Delivery

- Secure Object Delivery (Secure Socket Layer Objects)

- Secure Content Delivery - Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure (HTTPs)

- Last Mile Accelerator (Compression)

- Streaming Delivery (Audio/Video)

- Dynamic End User Mapping 

- Basic Cache Control (Prefetching, Standard TTLs, etc.)

- Capacity On-Demand 

- Object delivery

- Domain Name Resolution (CNAME, A-Records etc.)- Control 

- Monitoring

- Customer Reporting and Log Delivery 

- Unique Customer/Application Identifier  

- Alerts (Adjustable threshold settings, E-mail delivery, etc.)

- Customer Content Control Utilities (Purging, etc.)

- Standard Break/Fix Customer Care Support (24x7x365)



6.7 Task 7: IPv6 Compliance:

The contractor shall provide solutions that are Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6) capable. An IPv6 capable system or product is capable of receiving, processing, transmitting and forwarding IPv6 packets and/or interfacing with other systems and protocols in a manner similar to that of IPv4. Specific criteria to be deemed IPv6 capable are:



Conformance to the DoD Information Technology Standards Repository (DISR) developed DoD IPv6 Standards Profile. Systems being developed, procured or acquired shall comply with the Global Information Global Architecture and DISR standard IPv6 Capable definition. An IPv6 Capable system shall meet the IPv6 base requirements defined in the latest “DoD IPv6 Standards Profile” available from the DISR.



Maintenance of interoperability with Internet Protocol Version 4 (IPv4). Systems developed, procured or acquired shall maintain interoperability with IPv4 systems/capabilities. Systems should implement IPv4/IPv6dualstack and should also be built to determine which protocol layer to use depending on the destination host it is attempting to communicate with or establish a socket with. 



6.8 Task 8 Mobile Device Support: 

The contractor shall provide full support with mobile device capabilities, the solution shall determine the type of device at the established edge location the end user is interacting with worldwide, and deliver that mobile content in the appropriate format from the edge, GCDS shall have the capability to transcode from the edge and deliver appropriate formats from the edge for the end users device.



6.9 Task 9 Automated Capabilities: In support of cloud services, contractor shall provide the capability within GCDS to have automated capabilities to generate metadata on GCDS from Application Program Interfaces (API) that can link with Cloud environments within DISA 



6.10 Task 10 Data DeDuplication Technologies: 

DOD cloud services including Enterprise Email and the Enterprise SharePoint as well as others require the integration of data deduplication   technologies (Riverbed or equivalent). The contractor shall provide a capability within their product to link into the deduplication technology to allow for the data deduplication technology to be delivered invisible to the end users globally and interface automatically with the GCDS edge locations globally.  

6.11 Task 11 Transition Strategy: 



6.11.1 Subtask 11.1- Implementation Transition Strategy:  The implementation transition strategy will begin immediately upon award of the task order.  The contractor shall provide a detailed non-disruptive strategy for transitioning the current edge locations provided in their proposal.  The transition strategy shall provide for completing the transition of all edge locations to the proposed contractor’s solutions achieving full operating capability (FOC).  Incentivization disincentivization will be provided based on timeline of completion as referenced in section 8.1 and 8.2. Full operating capability involves working with the incumbent contractor and the application owners to transition edges, metadata, etc. seamlessly.  The contractor shall identify and respond to new customer requirements and prioritize implementation and shall utilize an automated URL migration tool if using such a tool would make URL migration more efficient than manual processes.



Transition phases will be approved by the GCDS PMO to manage customer expectations, bandwidth constraints.



Deliverable/s: Transition Plan showing the methodology for transitioning current GCDS capabilities to Contractor provided utility solution(s).

 

6.11.1.1 Subtask 11.1.1- New Customers:  The contractor shall identify and respond to new customer requirements and prioritize implementation.     



6.11.2 Subtask 11.2 Transition Exit Strategy: The transition exit strategy will begin at the end of the base task order.  The Contractor shall conduct any necessary de-installation and removal of hardware items on this task order upon request by the Government both during and at the end of the task order, at no cost to the Government.  Removal of all contractor equipment will be coordinated with the site Accountable Property Custodian (APC) or Property management group.



Deliverable/s:  Transition Exit Strategy that details the draw down and transition for all capabilities as well as the impact to system requirements. 



6.11.2.1 Task 12 Removal of Equipment: 



The Contractor shall conduct any necessary de-installation and removal of hardware items on this task order upon request by the Government both during and at the end of the task order, at no cost to the Government.  Removal of all contractor equipment will be coordinated with the site Accountable Property Custodian (APC) or Property management group.



Deliverable/s:  De-installation and removal of hardware items on this task order upon request by the Government at no cost to the Government.



6.13 Task 13 Media Retention: All systems; components and/or writeable media being removed from the site (tapes, hard drives, mass storage devices, etc.) will be sanitized or may be retained by the government for destruction in accordance with DoD, DISA and ESD Security guidance.  The contractor must be aware that the sanitation process is to prevent any compromise of classified and/or controlled unclassified data and may render the system components and/or writeable media unserviceable and/or completely destroyed.  The Government will make the determination as to whether drives can be sanitized or destroyed.   



Deliverable/s:  De-installation and removal of media items on this task order upon request by the Government at no cost to the Government.



6.14 Task 14 Delivery and Installation: 

The Contractor shall provide GCDS solution components that can be delivered, installed, and ready for use within 30 calendar days necessary to support task order requirements. The Contractor shall acquire, warehouse, install, uninstall, transport, provide the necessary hardware (including cabinets/racks), hardware maintenance, associated support software required for contractor solution to operate, and services to support the storage infrastructure associated with the  task order. The contractor shall ensure that all GCDS Hardware/Software/solutions are STIG’d and configured in compliance with DoD and DISA Information Assurance directions and instructions which are further detailed in Section 12. Normal equipment installations should be accomplished during regular dayshift working hours (0600-1800 local time), Monday through Friday.  Under certain conditions, the contractor may be required to perform an installation/update after normal duty hours during evenings and weekends.  Although the Government will try to minimize this requirement, the Contractor must plan to work after hours, weekends, and or holidays for delivery and installation of new or updated orders.  



6.14.1-All vendors are required to technically refresh a minimum of 1 time during the base 3 year period.  The refresh can be at the start by providing new equipment when the award is made or any time before the expiration of the base period.  



6.15 Task 15 Contract Review Meetings:

Contractors shall participate and support Program meetings held at various geographical locations.  



6.15.1 Subtask 15.1- KICKOFF MEETING:

Government and contractor representatives shall have a  kickoff meeting to be attended by key participants for each party. The meeting shall occur shortly after award of the  task order at a defined DISA facility. The site shall be determined by the Government. The purpose of the meeting is to review the  task order requirements and processes.

 

6.15.2 Subtask 15.2 - MONTHLY STATUS MEETINGS:

There shall be a monthly status teleconference meeting at a time mutually agreed upon.  This meeting will address some of the following topics:

Monthly Status Reporting

Financial Reviews

Technology Reviews

Service Management Reviews

Performance Evaluation Reviews



6.15.3 Subtask 15.3 - SEMI-ANNUAL REVIEW MEETINGS:

The parties shall have semi-annual review meetings at a site to be determined by the DISA program manager. The meeting will be held to review task order status and may be cancelled only by the Government. The contractor shall prepare a report summarizing the meeting within five workdays after completion.



 This meeting will address some of the following topics:

Semi-Annual Status Reporting

Financial Reviews

Technology Reviews

Service Management Reviews

Performance Evaluation Reviews



6.16 Task 16 – Acceptance:  The acceptance of equipment by the Government will start the billing cycle for this service. The contractor will work with DISA to develop an acceptance testing methodology to smoothly transition equipment into the DISA production environment. The official acceptance documentation will be provided by the Government after the task order award. 



6.17 Task 17 – Deactivation:  Billing will stop based on the date of deactivation of the equipment and official cancellation of the original call order, not removal of the equipment from the DISA site..   



6.18 Task 18 Invoice Creation and Billing Cycle:

The contractor shall provide solutions to create invoices directly from order data and does not require the collection, manipulation, or review of utilization data.  Contractor shall create the invoice directly from data provided by DISA in its “contract call order,” augmented by the “Acceptance” and “Deactivation” date that begins charges based on a monthly rate (increases and decreases) for the resources ordered and provisioned. Contractor shall employ a monthly billing cycle. Any new equipment added to the contract prior to or on the 15th of the month will be paid for the full month. If added after the 15th of the month, billing will begin the following month. Any equipment deleted from the contract prior to or on the 15th of the month will not be billed for the month. If deleted after the 15th of the month, billing will occur that month. 



1.  Orders that remained in service the entire month with no changes; 

2.  Orders placed in service during the month; and 

3.  Orders implemented during the month that reduced or cancelled services. 



6.18.1 Subtask 18.1: Contractor shall create a draft invoice and submit it to the designated DISA COR who reviews/corrects, as necessary, the draft invoice.  Following this feedback, Contractor formally submits the invoice via the DoD Wide Area Workflow System (WAWF).  The invoice shall be constructed to DISA specification and supporting details will be appended in the form of a spreadsheet file that can be easily manipulated to provide a variety of different sorts and views of the underlying data.  Submission of the monthly invoice for the prior month’s activity is routinely completed no later than the fifth of the month. 



6.18.1.1:   Invoices shall contain no more than 2 decimal places.



6.19 Task 19  – REPORTING Requirements:  Contractor shall be required to provide the following reports on the 5th workday of the month.   Costs for these reports will be included in the utility prices.



6.19.1 Subtask 19.1 – Monthly Inventory Report:  Report must include (but not limited to) the following:  contract number, task order numbers, hardware makes and models, serial numbers, configuration components (cabinets, disk numbers, sizes and speeds, ports, slots, transports, etc.), total capacity allocated and billing, microcode versions, physical locations, (to include: site location, floor tile location, etc.), environment (SIPR/NIPR) order dates, installation dates, and acceptance dates.  



6.19.2 Subtask 19.2 – Weekly Order Summary:  Report must include (but is not limited to) the following:  Task order number, order received, valid order date, call order line number, CLIN, SLIN, description, customer, project, quantity, delivery location, make, model, DISA requestor, technical POC,  base price, extended price, DISA billing information (Resource Pools, BAN, K-Codes, etc.), estimated ship date, actual ship date, estimated delivery date, actual delivery, estimated install date, actual install,  actual provision date,  acceptance date, order status, and description.  



6.19.3 Subtask 19.3 – Monthly Incident Summary: Report must include (but not limited to) the following:  description of incident, hardware makes and models, serial numbers, physical locations, (to include: site location, floor tile location, etc.), environment (SIPR/NIPR), date and time of incident, date and time of resolution, summary of action taken to resolve.



6.19.4 Subtask 19.4 – Ad Hoc Reports: As required based upon Government requirements.





6.20   Task 20: Performance and Availability.  The contractor shall:



6.20.1 Subtask 20.1: Provide solutions that are deployed and priced as a managed service. Managed Services can be cancelled at any time at no cost to the Government.



Deliverable/s:  Managed service with the ability to increase and decrease solutions capacity as required.  Billing must reflect increases and decreases.



6.20.2 Subtask 20.2: Provide 24x7/365 problem escalation/resolution support services.

Deliverable/s:  Problem escalation/resolution support process with details about whom and their authority at each level in the process.



6.20.3 Subtask 20.3: Provide solutions that are highly available (minimum 99.999availability) and readily scalable to adjust to increases and decreases in required GCDS capability.



Deliverable/s:  Provide the technical specifications which describe how the provided solutions meet the availability and scalability GCDS capability.  



6.20.4 Subtask 20.4: Provide a solution that reduce the bandwidth use on the DISN.



Deliverable/s: Provide a minimum threshold of 50% of bandwidth offload from the DISN.



6.20.5  Subtask 20.5:  Provide solutions that can be delivered, installed, implemented, scaled and maintained throughout their life at an optimum level of performance according to the original equipment manufacturers (OEM) best practices without reconfiguration or service disruption.



Deliverable/s:  Utility GCDS services with the ability to increase and decrease as required non-disruptively while delivering optimum levels of performance.



6.20.6 Subtask 20.6: Provide a solution that conforms to government requirements for file downloading



Deliverable/s: Provide file downloads within the minimum threshold of 5 seconds or less with an objective of 3 seconds that are equal to or greater than 1MB.  Provide large file downloads within the minimum threshold of 30 seconds with an objective of 20 seconds for files that are equal to or greater than 100MB.



6.20.7 Subtask 20.7: Provide a solution that conforms to government requirements for page load in a web browser.



Deliverable/s: Provide a minimum requirement page to load in web browser at 5 seconds with an objective of three seconds.



6.21 Task 21: DoD and DISA Security Regulations. The contractor shall:



6.21.1 Subtask 21.1: All computer systems deployed on the DISN in satisfaction of the service request must meet applicable DoD and DISA security regulations and standards.  It is the responsibility of the service provider to maintain the systems in accordance with these and, using any system or systems specified by DISA to properly document the system’s security status and currency under existing IAVAs, IAVBs, etc.



Deliverable: Weekly Security Status Updates which includes:

 IAVA and IAVB status

Notification of satisfactory completion of each and informing Government that contractor is in compliance with FSO guidelines.



7.  Performance Standards.





8.0 Delivery Incentives/Disincentives. The Delivery Incentives/Disincentives associated with work performed under this PWS are detailed below: 



8.1 Transition Incentives: 



8.1.1: The Contractor will receive an incentive of 2% of the full transition cost when Full Operational Capability (FOC) is met within a six month period, 1.5% if FOC is completed in seven months, 1% if FOC is completed in eight months, and .5% if FOC is completed in nine months from the start date of contract award.  Performance standards are defined in Attachment J-4 QASP.  This incentive will only apply to the transition period of the contract.  The incentive will be calculated on the first full 30-day billing period following FOC completion within the noted timeframe, which begins on contract award date.  The measurement to determine if the incentive timeframe was achieved will entail making all three content delivery networks (NIPR/SIPR/CX-I) are operational.  A content delivery network is considered operational when it has Web delivery, NetStorage, and Streaming capabilities available for consumption by DISA's customers.  Furthermore, all three CDNs will be considered operational once all of 800+ URLs have been transitioned from the legacy GCDS service to the new GCDS service. Additionally, a declaration of complete FOC from the vendor will need to be submitted on or before the last day of the for the incentive to be achieved.  





8.2: Delivery Disincentives:



8.2.1: The Contractor will be charged a -.5% disincentive fee per month exceeding the ten month expectation of Full Operational Capability.  The disincentive fee of -.5% will begin on the first day following the end of the tenth month if migration occurs after the performance standards defined in Attachment J-4 QASP.  The -.5% per month will be calculated on the first day of the eleventh month and will be charged monthly until FOC is reached. FOC will be evaluated by the following standards: content delivery networks (NIPR/SIPR/CX-I) are operational.  A content delivery network is considered operational when it has Web delivery, NetStorage, and Streaming capabilities available for consumption by DISA's customers.  Furthermore, all three CDNs will be considered operational once all of 800+ URLs have been transitioned from the legacy GCDS service to the new GCDS service. Last, a declaration of complete FOC from the vendor will need to be submitted on or before the last day of the tenth month.  





8.3: The PWS and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) may be modified to identify performance objectives and standards for new equipment and services that may be added to the original PWS and QASP through normal contract modification as required.           



9.  Place of Performance.  Place of performance will be broken into three categories: CONUS, OCONUS standard, and OCONUS limited.



9.1.1: CONUS SITES

DISA sites within the Continental United States.



9.1.2: OCONUS STANDARD SITES

DISA designated sites Outside the Continental United States with standard facilities/support found OCONUS sites.



9.1.3: OCONUS LIMITED SITES

DISA designated sites Outside the Continental United States with limited facilities/support. These sites will usually be forward operating installations.



Alternate Place of Performance - Contingency Only.  Contractor employees may be required to work at home, another approved activity within the local travel area or at the contractor's facility in cases of unforeseen conditions or contingencies (e.g., pandemic conditions, exercises, etc.).  Any equipment such as laptops or phones provided to Contractor personnel shall be returned at the termination of the engagement or at another time mutually agreeable to both parties.  Contracting Officer Representative (COR) approval is required.  Contractor shall prepare all deliverables and other contract documentation utilizing contractor resources.  To the extent possible, the contractor shall use best efforts to provide the same level of support as stated in the SOW/PWS.  In the event the services are impacted, reduced, compromised, etc., the Contracting Officer or the contractor may request an equitable adjustment.



10.  Period of Performance.  Period of performance is three year base period, with three 1-year options.  

As directed by the COR, the contractor shall continue performance in emergency or mission essential conditions.  Additionally, the contractor may be required to account for the whereabouts of their personnel should this information be requested by the COR.



11.  Delivery Schedule.  





12.  Security.  This section shall be considered a supplement to block 13 of the Government provided DD 254, Contract Classification Specification.  The following security requirements shall apply to this effort.



12.1: Facility Security Clearance.  The work to be performed under this task order is up to the Top Secret level and may require Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI) access eligibility for some personnel.  Therefore the company must have a final Top Secret Facility Clearance (FCL) from the Defense Security Service (DSS) Facility Clearance Branch (FCB).



12.2: Security Clearance and Information Technology (IT) Level.  All personnel performing on this task order will be U.S. citizens.  There are two levels of personnel security requirements under this task order, Top Secret SCI IT-1 and Secret IT-1.



12.2.1: The positions requiring a minimum of final Top Secret security clearance and final IT-I (privileged level systems access) shall have eligibility when performance starts.  Immediately upon hire the incumbents will require SCI access eligibility adjudicated by the Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) to perform their duties.  SCI Processing for SCI eligibility will be coordinated with the supporting Government Security Manager and will begin immediately upon start of duty performance under this task order.

	

12.3: Investigation Requirements.  All personnel requiring SCI, Top Secret or IT-I eligibility under this task order must undergo a favorably adjudicated Single Scope Background Investigation (SSBI) as a minimum investigation.  The SSBI will be maintained current within 5-years and requests for Special Background Periodic Review (SBPR) will be initiated 6-months prior to the 5-year anniversary date of the previous SSBI or SBPR. 



12.3.1: Contract employees that are not immediately eligible for at least interim IT-1 systems access will be permitted to begin work with interim IT-II systems access at the discretion of the Government, pending eligibility for IT-1.  Before being permitted to begin work under this arrangement the individual contractor employee must be submitted by the company for an SSBI (investigation) that is reflected in the DoD JPAS database and granted interim IT-II systems access approval by DISA Personnel Security.  The employee will not be granted any privileged access until interim or final IT-1 systems access is granted by DISA Personnel Security.  The contract company must submit the request for SSBI as soon as a job offer is tendered to an employee.  Advance NAC results will be requested by the contract company to facilitate expeditious consideration for interim IT-1 systems access by DISA Security.  Advance NAC results or a previous DoD investigation are required for interim IT-1 consideration.  If the employee is not able to obtain an interim IT-1 clearance within 90 days they will not be eligible for continued employment with the agency.



12.4  Contractor Security Training Requirements:  The contract team shall provide the optimum mix of personnel of various labor categories and technical expertise to perform the tasks specified in the technical environments specified in this PWS.  Initially, the contractor must provide 100% of personnel meeting the DoD Directive 8570.01-M IA certification requirements.  New personnel joining the contractor after award of the task order shall meet IA certification requirements upon assignment of the individual to perform IA work or must be removed from the task order until certification is met.  IA certification programs are intended to produce IA personnel with the demonstrated ability to perform the functions of their assigned position.  Each category and skill level has specific training and certification requirements.  Meeting these requirements will require a combination of formal training, experiential activities such as on-the-job training, and continuing education.   The table below represents the DoD approved baseline certifications for Information Assurance Technical (IAT) and Information Assurance Manager (IAM) personnel.  



IAT Level 1                                   	    IAT Level II                                	   IAT Level III







The contractor shall ensure that all contractor personnel performing Systems Administrator (SA) or Systems Service Provider (SSP) functions, and/or having access to the operating system of any GCDS, managed, or supported Information System, as applicable to this PWS are certified at Level II, in accordance with the DISA SA Certification Program.  Required certification must be obtained not later than 90 days following the assignment of the individual to perform work.  During this period of 90 days, either an industry (in accordance with NIST Special Publication 800-16) or other DoD agency equivalent certification will be acceptable, but must be followed up by completion of the DISA SA Level II Certification.  The Government will provide the training materials (to include CBT and CD), laboratory environment, and the test to enable compliance with this requirement.  Classroom attendance in Government conducted training will be made available on a space available basis only.  However, the inability to attend Government conducted training will not be justification for noncompliance.



All contractor personnel performing duties as a SA will maintain compliancy, as applicable with the Joint Security (System Administrator) Checklists (Available on the DoD IASE/IA Portal, under STIGS, 



Any contractor personnel who fail to comply with any of the above certifications shall be removed from this task order.  The contractor shall be responsible for any retraining expenses required by the individual to meet these requirements.  A revised resume showing in detail the retraining actions must be submitted and approved by the Government before an individual can be reinstated.



12.5 Adjudication for IT access:  Adjudication of investigations for granting of interim or final IT-I access will be accomplished through DISA Security.  An exception to this is that individual contractor employees with an SSBI or SBPR (within a 5-year scope) that is favorably adjudicated for a Top Secret security clearance by any of the Department of Defense adjudication facilities (DISCO, DIA, ACCF, AFCAF, NAVCAF, WHSCAF) will be automatically accepted for final IT-I access.



12.6 Interim IT access:  Pending completion of a SSBI (for IT-I) and final adjudication for security clearance, contractor employees may be granted interim authorization to perform duties designated as IT-I.  The interim authority for IT sensitive positions is the DISA Personnel Security Office.



12.6.1: Following are the requirements, which must be met prior to granting of interim IT-I authorization:



The request for SSBI (E-QIP or Word Fillable SF 86 and fingerprint cards) must be submitted by the contractor Facility Security Officer (FSO) through the Defense Security Service (DSS) to the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the Department of Defense (DoD) Personnel Security Data Base (JPAS) must reflect that the investigation is open.  A copy of the E-QIP or SF 86 forms must be submitted to the DISA Field Security Office, Security Manager (SM).  The SM will forward the forms along with a written request for interim IT-I authorization to DISA Personnel Security for approval.



The National Agency Check (NAC) portion of the SSBI or a previous valid NCLC/DNACI/NAC or ENTNAC must be completed and favorably adjudicated before interim IT-I access will be granted.  An interim security clearance (either Top Secret or Secret, as appropriate for the position) should be requested by the company FSO for those contractor employees without a previous investigation.



12.7 Visit Authorization Letters:  The Contractor will forward a Visit Authorization Letter (VAL) to the Contracting Officer’s Representative/Task Monitor at the following address for all employees prior to the beginning of each contracting/task order period of performance and as new contractor employees are assigned to the contract:



The VAL shall be on company letterhead or pre-fabricated form and contain the following information:



        Contract number with start and end dates

        Company point of contact (POC) and telephone number

        Government Task Monitor name and telephone number

        Complete legal name of employee(s)

        Social Security Number

        Security Clearance level, date granted, and  

        Adjudication facility name, i.e. DISCO

        Type of personnel security investigation (PSI) pending or completed

        Date PSI completed



Security Contacts:  DISA Security Personnel can be contacted for security related questions as follows:



For Industrial Security related issues: 



Terry Scott, phone:  (301) 225-1229



Defense Information Systems Agency

ATTN:  MPS61, Industrial Security

Command Building

6910 Cooper Ave.

Fort Meade, MD 20755-7088



For Personnel Security related issues to include interim IT access requests:



Primary:  Richard Young, phone:  (301) 225-1237

Alternate:  Vernon Rhodes, phone:  (301) 225-1532



Defense Information Systems Agency

ATTN:  MPS62, Personnel Security 

Command Building

6910 Cooper Ave.

Fort Meade, MD 20755-7088



12.7  Information Security and other miscellaneous requirements:



12.7.1: Contractor personnel must comply with local security requirements for entry and exit control for personnel and property at the government facility. 



12.7.2: Contractor employees will be required to comply with all Government security regulations and requirements.  Initial and periodic security training and briefings will be provided by Government security personnel.  Failure to comply with security requirements can be cause for termination of employment.



12.7.3: The Contractor shall not divulge any information about DoD files, data processing activities or functions, user identifications, passwords, or any other knowledge that may be gained, to anyone who is not authorized to have access to such information.  The Contractor shall observe and comply with the security provisions in effect at the DoD facility.  Identification shall be worn and displayed as required.



12.7.4: DISA retains the right to request removal of contractor personnel regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status, whose actions, while assigned to this contract, clearly conflict with the interest of the Government.  



12.7.5:  Contractor personnel will generate or handle documents that contain FOUO information, at both Government and contractor facilities.  Storage of any Government classified information or materials at the contractor’s facility under this contract is not authorized unless specific exception is granted by the Government Task Monitor.  Any exception for the contractor to store classified will require the contractor’s facility to be approved for classified storage by the Defense Security Service (DSS) and appropriate modification of the DD 254. Contractor shall have access to, generate, and handle classified material at Government and contractor facilities.  All contractor deliverables shall be marked at a minimum FOUO, unless otherwise directed by the Government.  The contractor shall comply with the provisions of the DOD Industrial Security Manual for handling classified material and producing deliverables. The contractor shall comply with DISA Instruction 630-230-19.



12.7.6: The contractor shall ensure that DISA, DoD and customer data stored at contractor facilities is protected in compliance with the DISA GCDS Security Standard Operating Procedures and the National Industrial Security Program Operating Manual (NISPOM).



12.7.7:  All contractor personnel working on this effort must execute nondisclosure agreements prior to commencement of their starting work on this effort.  For the purposes of this TO, all related customer information is classified no lower than Unclassified Controlled Information (Comply with the appropriate contract paragraph).



12.8: DOD Directive 8500.1, Information Assurance, requires that “all IA and IA-enabled IT products incorporated into DOD information systems shall be configured in accordance with DOD-approved security configuration guidelines.”  DISA Instruction 63023031 assigns the DISA Deputy Director for Operations with the responsibility to develop and maintain Security Technical Implementation Guides (STIGs).  These STIGs (or Addendum, as appropriate) serve as the security configuration guidelines required by DODD 8500.1.  DODD 8500.1 has been supplemented with additional information concerning specific operating system environments. 



12.9: DISA utilizes classified and controlled unclassified information to accomplish mission objectives.  Contractor personnel exposed to this level of information shall protect the data through the use of the security features inherent to software loaded, strong authentication and physical constraints as outlined below.  Any deviation from standard practices may compromise data resulting in harm to the government.



12.10: DISA operating facilities’ security is multi - faceted and implemented utilizing the layered approach.  The traditional security requirements such as perimeters being patrolled, stationary guards assigned, approved access devices such as locks, card readers, badges, access logs and detection devices are physical controls implemented to deter unauthorized access.  Information controls render a different challenge by protecting automated sensitive data and associated resources from unauthorized access.  Accounts are established after registered personnel meet access and/or clearance levels necessary for position.  Through awareness training, directives and local policy contracted personnel are expected to comply with local security requirements up holding physical and information system security disciplines.  When hardware is no longer required, the government shall ensure the media (tapes, hard drives, mass storage devices, etc.) is sanitized in accordance with appropriate regulations.  If the media cannot be sanitized and rendered to the unclassified level, the media may be returned to the contractor in an unusable state.   This process is to ensure the protection of controlled unclassified and classified information.   



13.  Government-Furnished Equipment (GFE)/Government-Furnished Information (GFI). 



In support of GCDS DISA (to include civilians and contractors that are under task order with Enterprise Services) the Government shall:

 Maintain operational control over all specified IA control devices such as Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS) and encryption devices. 

Provide workload projections to the contractor.

Quantify requirements for new or changing workloads.

Approve all changes to the operating environment that potentially impact customer/contractor applications.

Approve all scheduled downtime.

Conduct quality assurance, integration, and security testing of customer applications software.

Establish semi-annual task order review meetings with the contractor. 

Government Furnished Information will be provided via required manuals and documentation, as available.  The contractor shall be required to protect against unauthorized disclosure of any materials or information made available by the Government or to which it has access during performance of the task order.  Any information or materials developed by the contractor in the performance of this task order will be the exclusive property of the Government.  Upon completion or termination of this task order or an individual order, the contractor shall be required to turn over to the Government all materials that were furnished by the Government as well as all materials developed and/or engineered by the contractor in the performance of this task order.



14.  Other Pertinent Information or Special Considerations.  

	a.  Identification of Potential Conflicts of Interest (COI).  At any point during the performance of the task order, if either the Government or the contractor perceives a conflict of interest, they are required to inform the other party for resolution.



	b.  Identification of Non-Disclosure Requirements.  

All contractor personnel working on this effort must execute nondisclosure agreements prior to commencement of their starting work on this effort.  For the purposes of this task order, all related customer information is classified no lower than Unclassified Controlled Information.



	c.  Packaging, Packing and Shipping Instructions.  

Contractor responsible for warehousing, shipping and receiving equipment with the exception of GFE.  



	d.  Inspection and Acceptance Criteria.  

Contractor shall ensure all equipment in properly inspected and accepted by the government prior to installation.  



     e.  Property Accountability.   The contractor shall submit the attached Electronic Product List (see below) in addition to complying with all requirements of DFARS 252.211-7003.  See DARS 252.211-9000, Requirement to Submit an Electronic Product List for additional information.  

				

   f. Management and Operations. 

DISA shall identify and document the process by which Contractor and DISA engage, contract, implement, and support end customers who desire to leverage the GCDS NIPRNet, SIPRNet, ISAF and JWICS, or other network platform DISA and/or DISA-directed contractor shall provide NIPRNet and/or SIPRNet and/or ISAF and/or JWICS, and other DOD classified and unclassified network connectivity, as well as a Secure Telephone Unit (STU), to Contractor requested location(s), or provide location(s) with NIPRNet and/or SIPRNet and/or ISAF and/or JWICS and Internet connectivity to support the contracted level of service, for Contractor engineers preferably in the National Capital Region (NCR).

DISA and/or DISA-directed contractor shall provide a single technical point of contact that will be accountable for representing DISA in communicating technical requirements. This person shall provide access to personnel who are familiar with the security, architecture, design and implementation of the DISN networks (NIPRNet, SIPRNet, ISAF and JWICS, and other DOD or Federal classified and unclassified networks).  

The contractor shall be responsible for shipping Contractor hardware to target locations.  

DISA and/or DISA-directed contractor shall manage and be responsible for any security accreditation processes.  Contractor shall provide assistance and Contractor specific expertise in order to facilitate security accreditation processes. 

  g. Technical Information. 

DISA shall provide facilities, electrical, network connections, IP address space, and bandwidth for the necessary servers to accommodate initial and expanding capacity requirements of the GCDS services.

GCDS vendor servers shall be able to perform trace routes and pings across the designated networks for GCDS.

GCDS vendor “Edge” regions shall have designated capacity on shared or private connections to the designated networks for GCDS.

All GCDS vendor machines shall have access to the same DISA maintained  (NTP) servers, and other classified DOD or Federal network hardware.

All GCDS vendor machines shall have full connectivity and access to all other GCDS vendor machines, currently provided via a full mesh VPN, on all designated GCDS networks. Vendor requires this open level of communication between its machines in order to operate its load balancing and monitoring systems.

DISA shall create necessary .mil and .smil domains for the GCDS vendor service(s) as well as any other domains.

GCDS vendor shall provide DNS resolution for the Contractor’s content delivery service (s) for all current domains (.mil and .smil domains), future networks, and other domains as needed and required.

Contractor employees working in the operational locations shall have at a minimum Secret/ Information Technology I clearances by the start of task order performance. Positions requiring the contractor employees to have Top Secret Sensitive Compartmented Information (TS/SCI) clearances will be identified by the Government as required.. The encryption devices required for GCDS to operate will be in place. The government shall make their encryption devices available for content delivery requirements, when determined necessary by government. The government shall own and maintain the type I encryption devices and intrusion detection devices required for the content delivery solution. 

  h. Ownership of GCDS Equipment.

The GCDS hardware shall remain at all times the sole property of Contractor. All Contractor Content Delivery Technology and Contractor Software loaded on the contractor’s hardware that is originating from the Contractor without request by the Government are the property of the contractor.  All software or hardware developed and paid by the Government for special application within GCDS becomes the rights and property of the Government.  Accordingly, the Government further acknowledges and agrees that this Agreement does not transfer or convey to it any right, license, title or interest in or to the Contractor Content Delivery Technology that is not specific to GCDS and has not been requested to be designed or developed by the Government.  During the Term, the Government its employees, representatives, contractors and licensees will not, except in accordance with written instructions from Contractor: (a) open or modify any hardware supplied by Contractor; (b) operate switch toggles on the GCDS equipment, intentionally switch power on or off, intentionally unplug the GCDS equipment or reconfigure cabling, (c) interconnect or interfere with any networking equipment or network usage of Contractor; (d) attempt in any way to execute commands or gain shell or other access to Contractor systems; or (e) attempt to interface or interoperate the GCDS Servers with any other hardware or software except as provided in this Agreement.   For security purposes, hard drives /flash cards will be maintained by the government and destroyed should security requirements indicate that it is a requirement. The Government will maintain ownership of all intrusion detection devices and type I cryptographic devices. 



 i. Facility Requirements.  The Government shall be responsible for providing rack space, adequate routable  (IP) address space, the required power and uplinks, full network connectivity for the GCDS hardware and access to the NIPRNet and/or SIPRNet and/or ISAF and/or JWICS at no cost to the Contractor.  The Government shall provide the DOD/DISA required level of security at each Facility where GCDS hardware is located.  The Government shall use its best efforts to provide uninterrupted and surge protected electrical power for the GCDS hardware from the time the Contractor connects the GCDS hardware to the network used to provide the GCDS Services through the expiration or termination of the term.  The Contractor shall provide the hardware and software necessary for operation of the GCDS.



j. Network Management.	

The Government shall provide the Contractor with such technical information as the parties agree is reasonably necessary for optimal delivery of the GCDS.  The Contractor shall be responsible for monitoring and operating the GCDS hardware and maintaining the operating systems and software



15.  Section 508 Accessibility Standards.  The following Section 508 Accessibility Standard(s) (Technical Standards and Functional Performance Criteria) are applicable (if box is checked) to this acquisition.



Technical Standards



 1194.21 - Software Applications and Operating Systems

 1194.22 - Web Based Intranet and Internet Information and Applications

 1194.23 - Telecommunications Products

 1194.24 - Video and Multimedia Products

 1194.25 - Self-Contained, Closed Products

 1194.26 - Desktop and Portable Computers

 1194.41 - Information, Documentation and Support



The Technical Standards above facilitate the assurance that the maximum technical standards are provided to the Offerors.  Functional Performance Criteria is the minimally acceptable standards to ensure Section 508 compliance.  This block is checked to ensure that the minimally acceptable electronic and information technology (E&IT) products are proposed.



Functional Performance Criteria



 1194.31 - Functional Performance Criteria




ATTACHMENT 1 Page 1 of 4

Definitions and Acronyms





Best Value: the expected outcome of an acquisition that, in the Government's estimation, provides the greatest overall benefit in response to the requirement, based on existing evaluation criteria.



Content Delivery: A content delivery network or content distribution network (CDN) is a system of computers containing copies of data, placed at various points in a network so as to maximize bandwidth for access to the data from clients throughout the network. A client accesses a copy of the data near to the client, as opposed to all clients accessing the same central server, so as to avoid bottleneck near that server.



Disadvantaged Networks: Networks that are not performing at their optimized level of performance in regard to delivering content.



Edge Networks: The capacity sum of strategically placed servers can be higher than the network backbone capacity. This can result in an impressive increase in the number of concurrent users. Strategically placed edge servers decrease the load on interconnects, origin servers and backbones, freeing up capacity and lowering delivery costs. Instead of loading all traffic on a backbone or peer link, a CDN can offload these by redirecting traffic to servers at the edge (DOD intranet).



MAC 1: In computer security mandatory access control (MAC) refers to a type of access control by which the operating system constrains the ability of a subject or initiator to access or generally perform some sort of operation on an object or target. In practice, a subject is usually a process or thread; objects are constructs such as files, directories, TCP/UDP ports, shared memory segments, etc. Subjects and objects each have a set of security attributes. Whenever a subject attempts to access an object, an authorization rule enforced by the operating system kernel examines these security attributes and decides whether the access can take place. Any operation by any subject on any object will be tested against the set of authorization rules (aka policy) to determine if the operation is allowed.



Net-Centric: Participating as a part of a continuously-evolving, complex community of people, devices, information and services interconnected by a communications network to achieve optimal benefit of resources and better synchronization of events and their consequences.

In military connotation frequently associated with terms "Net-centric Operations (NCO)" and "Net-centric Warfare (NCW)". Many people use the terms "net-centric" and "network-centric" interchangeably. Some consider "network-centric" to refer to activities within a particular network and "net-centric" to refer to activities that cross networks.

Many experts believe the terms "information-centric" or "knowledge-centric" would capture the concepts more aptly because the objective is to find and exploit information, the network itself is only one of several enabling factors. The best commercial practitioners of globally distributed supply chain management employ net-centric methods.




ATTACHMENT 1 Page 2 of 4

Definitions and Acronyms

Enterprise Portal Application: An Enterprise Application/Portal is defined as any highly dynamic portal-like site that may or may not include integrated applications such as search or other back-end database intensive applications.  Dynamic pages include any page generated on-the-fly by an application server and/or using a CGI scripting language to be generated or customized for each user on the web server.  Enterprise Applications/Portals are assumed to include at least some secure content delivery (HTTPS) as well as complex cache rules, advanced services and web application acceleration requirements.  



Vulnerability Management System (VMS) is a computer based application on SIPRNet which requires entry of IAVA alerts and resolutions to issues on the network.



Information Assurance Vulnerability Alert (IAVA): is an announcement of a computer application software or operating system vulnerability notification in the form of alerts, bulletins, and technical advisories identified by DOD-CERT, a division of the United States Cyber Command (USCYBERCOM). These selected vulnerabilities are the mandated baseline, or minimum configuration of all hosts residing on the GIG. USCYBERCOM analyzes each vulnerability and determines if is necessary or beneficial to the DOD to release it as an IAVA. Implementation of IAVA policy will help ensure that DOD Components take appropriate mitigating actions against vulnerabilities to avoid serious compromises to DOD computer system assets that would potentially degrade mission performance.



Edge: DISA defines edge as where any Warfighter or system associated with defense of our Nation is located, and we are committed to the user wherever on the globe the user operates.



OCONUS Non-Standard Sites: DISA designated sites Outside the Continental United States with limited facilities/support. These sites will usually be forward operating installations.






ATTACHMENT 1 Page 3 of 4

Definitions and Acronyms



ACRONYMS



 ASD/AT&L Assistant Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics

ATO	Authority to Operate

 ATC	Authority to Connect

 BAC	Business Availability Center

 BPM	Business Process Monitor

 C&A	Certification and Accreditation

 CAC	Common Access Card

 CCB	Configuration Control Board

 CCC	Central Communication Centers

 CENTRIX Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange

 CGI	Common Gateway Interface

 CLIN Contract Line Item Number

 CONUS Continental United States

 COR	Contract Officer Representative

 DDOS Distributed Denial of Service

 DECC Defense Enterprise Computing Center

 DISA   Defense Information Systems Agency 

 DISN   Defense Information System

 DNS    Network Domain Name System 

 DOD	Department of Defense  

 ESI	Edge Side Includes

 ESD    Enterprise Services Directorate

 GCDS Global Information Grid Content Delivery Capacity Services

 GIG	Global Information Grid 

 GISMC GIG Global Infrastructure Service Management Center

 GNSC Global NetOps Support Center

 H&E	  Hands and Eyes

 HTTP Hyper Text Transfer Protocol 

 HTTPS Hyper Text Transfer Protocol Secure 

 HBSS Host Based Security System

 IAO	Information Assurance Officer

 IASE	Assurance Support Environment

 IAVA   Information Assurance & Vulnerability Assessment

 IAVB   Information Assurance Vulnerability Bulletin

 IP     Internet Protocol

 ISAF International Security Assistance Force

 IT	Information Technology

 JTF-GNO Joint Task Force - Global Network Operations

 JWICS Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communications System

MAC Mission Assurance Category

 NAT	Network Address Translation

 NCLC National Agency Check with Local Agency and Credit Check

 NCR 	 National Capital Region

 NetOps   Network Operations

 NIPRNet Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network

 NOCC Network Operations Command Center

 NTP	 Network Time Protocol

 OCONUS Outside the Continental United States

 OCSP Online Certificate Status Protocol

 OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer

PDF	Portable Document Format

PKI    Public Key Infrastructure

PMO	  Program Manager Office

POAMs Plan of actions and milestones

PORTAL Process Oriented Real Time Algorithmic Language

QASP Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan

URL    Uniform Resource Locator

SIPRNet   Secret Internet Protocol Router Network

SCLIN Sub Contract Line Item Number

SLA	Service Level Agreement

SSAA System Security Approval Authority

SSBI	  Single Scope Background Investigation 

STIGS Security Technical Implementation Guides

STU 	Secure Telephone Unit

TCP	Terminal Control Protocol

TNCs Transmission Network Control System

TSSCI Top Secret Sensitive Compartmented Information

TPPU Task, Post, Process, Use 

TPED Task, Process, Exploit, Disseminate 

VECP Value Engineering Change Proposal

VLAN Virtual Local Area Network

VMS	 Virtual Memory System

WAN Wide Area Network

WSUS Windows Server Update Services








ATTACHMENT 2, Page 1 of 3



Facilities Rack and Power Details



Rack Heat Output Limitations:

• The maximum heat and power density per standard rack (24”x48”) is 5.5 to 6KW.  The 5.5 to 6KW reference specifies actual operational load.  Loads in excess of this standard can be distributed into additional racks. 



Rack Physical Criteria / Dimensions:

• Maximum weight distribution shall be set off of the smallest tile and grid in the enterprise being a Con Core 1250 without additional bracing being required.

• Racks to be supplied or installed shall meet the physical dimensional requirements stated herein based on life safety code requirements, national fire protection code requirements, and the facility cooling arrangements. 

• WIDTH – 24” / 60.96cm MAXIMUM (to fit directly on 2’ floor grid) 

Some racks may be 30” models ordered for special purposes only. Double-depth or double-width racks are not acceptable. 

• DEPTH – 42” / 106.68cm MINIMUM external depth, 48” / 121.92cm MAXIMUM external depth. Racks that are shallower do not have sufficient space to install IT equipment, power distribution, and data-communications cabling while maintaining hot air exhaust pathways. 

• HEIGHT – 78.4” / 199.1cm MAXIMUM (to fit underneath 2m doorways for installation). 

• Racks shall provide a minimum of 42RU of rack space. One RU (rack unit, aka U) is an industry-standard 1.75” vertical space for mounting equipment. 



Rack Construction, Parts & Assembly:

• Side panels shall be solid and removable, with locks. There shall be no ventilation on the side panels. 

• Doors shall be perforated metal, secure latching doors with key lock, and reversible positioning for left / right hinging. Dual doors are acceptable. 

• Racks shall not be supplied or installed with solid or Plexiglas doors (inhibiting airflow) or non-removable tops (future cabling connections). 

• Top panels shall be removable and solid with knockouts or holes for cable management. No shipping feet authorized.

• All racks must be outfitted or retrofitted with blanking panels between equipment loads for proper airflow distribution. 

• No racks shall be installed with rack-mounted UPS.

• All racks shall have wire management equipment to direct power and data-communications cabling to the rear edges/rear corner posts of the racks. This promotes proper airflow front-to-rear through the majority of IT equipment.


ATTACHMENT 2, Page 2 of 3



Facilities Rack and Power Details



IT Equipment:

	• All IT equipment placed into the racks will have redundant power supplies.

• Individual pieces of IT equipment that consume more than 1kW (1000 Watts) will have power supplies that are Energy Star compliant or have an 80 Plus Bronze certification.

• Vendors will have provisions for allowing access to environmental data (for monitoring, tracking and trending purposes) for IT equipment that have active temperature and / or humidity sensors already installed.

• Power whips and network connectivity may be provided from the under floor or above floor.  Equipment and MPDU’s are to be able to be fed from either direction.

• Any equipment that is single corded or has an odd number of power supplies will require special support, i.e. an ATS to be installed to allow for redundant power.  (See pictures below and In Rack Power Distribution requirements listing.










ATTACHMENT 2, Page 3 of 3



Facilities Rack and Power Details



In Rack Power Distribution: 

• Three-phase power distribution is mandatory and will be the first consideration when planning IT equipment power solutions. 

• Each rack shall be supplied with two (2) each three phase metered “metered power distribution units” (MPDU’s) that mount vertically into the rear access/cabling spaces of the rack and shall be able to be integrated with the enterprise-standard BAS solution.

LED monitors for each phase showing actual amperage draws are preferred. 

• MPDU’s will be sized to ensure all equipment installed in the rack can be supported without an overload condition and shall be marked with which phase each receptacle draws from and present an alarm when any phase is overloaded. Overload is defined as in excess of the 80% limitation imposed by the National Electrical Code (16A for a 20A circuit, per phase).

• Each MPDU shall have a power cord with a minimum 6’ length power cord. 

• All MPDU receptacles should be logically addressable for future monitoring and rack level power management. 



Rack Installation & Layout: 

• Individual racks supporting IT equipment shall be placed side-by-side, not bayed/connected (baying racks allows airflow to bypass IT equipment intakes). Only racks designated as network distribution points may be interconnected; interconnected racks shall be specified separately and shall be delivered with appropriate baying hardware. 

• Placement of IT equipment racks must follow the master plan raised floor layout for the installation site, and must be approved by ES52 (Facilities). 



Waivers:

• Waivers shall only be granted in writing by the Chief of Facilities; this authority may not be delegated to subordinates, other DISA organizations, or individual site staff. 

• An exception report requesting the waiver will be submitted with the engineering design for the rack for determination.



Contract Number:

TBD

Task Order Number:

TBD



Name:

Aaron Harding

Organization:

DISA ESD ES1131

Department of Defense Activity

Address Code (DODAAC):

H98272

Address:

1 Overcash Ave. Bldg. 12

Chambersburg, PA 17201

Phone Number:

717.267.5694 DSN:570-5694

Fax Number:

717.267.8288 /717.267.8287

E-Mail Address:

  



Name:

Christina Holtz

Organization:

DISA ESD ES1131

DODAAC:

H98272

Address:

1 Overcash Ave. Bldg. 12

Chambersburg, PA 17201

Phone Number:

717.267.9558 DSN:570-9558

Fax Number:

717.267.8288 /717.267.8287

E-Mail Address:

Christina.l.holtz.civ@mail.mil











Performance Standard

Acceptable Quality Level (AQL)

Method of Surveillance

Task 1 - 6.1- Provide solutions that meets Government objectives.

Hardware and/or solutions meets Government objective. 

Periodic inspection of Government requests and bill of materials provided until solution is met.

Subtask 6.1.4 –- Provide  fully accredited solution

Solution is fully DoD (DoD) accredited

100% Inspection of accreditation package 

6.1.5- Tactical Deployable Edge

Available for Deployment 24/7/365

100% inspection of Tactical Deployable Edge

Task 6.20 Performance and Availability

Solution availability shall meet or exceed 99.999%. Solution availability will be measured in 30 day periods and meet or exceed availability (minimum of 99.999% based on the calculation:  

(Total available hours for 30 days – Measurement Exceptions – Time server is unavailable) / (Total available hours for 30 days –Measurement Exceptions)*100=“Service Level Attained”. Total available hours = 24x7x30 for each orderable system for each 30 day period

Periodic inspection of downtime reports

60.20.1 Utility Delivery and Pricing

Ability to increase and decrease capacity based on usage

100% inspection of invoicing

6.20.2 – Escalation/Problem Resolution, Help Desk.

 24x7/365 problem escalation/resolution support for hardware, operating system software, and capacity management.  Provide POCs, phone numbers, escalation chart.



Periodic inspection of downtime reports and number of hours to resolve issues.

6.20.4 – Reduce Bandwidth Usage 

Provide a minimum threshold of 50% of bandwidth offload from the DISN



100% inspection 

6.20.4 Provide a solution that conforms to government requirements for file downloading 

Provide file downloads within the minimum threshold of 5 seconds or less with an objective of 3 seconds that are equal to or greater than 1MB.  Provide large file downloads within the minimum threshold of 30 seconds with an objective of 20 seconds for files that are equal to or greater than 100MB.



Periodic inspection of reports. 

6.20.6 Provide a solution that conforms to government requirements for page load in a web browser.



Provide a minimum requirement page to load in web browser at 5 seconds with an objective of three seconds.



Periodic inspection of reports

6.5 -   Situational Awareness 

Provide situational awareness 24x7x365.  

Periodic inspection of situational awareness reports.

6.2.1.1 – Performance Optimization

GCDS shall be optimized for performance

Periodic inspection of Contractor reporting.

6.5.3 – Performance Monitoring.

Monitor edge locations including total bandwidth and hits.

Periodic inspection of Contractor  logs reaching back to one year.



6.1.14  – Adverse Network Detection



Provide a visual tool in near real time to view network conditions



Periodic inspection of reports and monitoring of network connections

6.11.1– Implementation transition. 

Transition  must occur within 365 days of task order 

Periodic inspection of the transition process. 

6.14 Equipment Ready for Use

Delivery, installation and make ready for use of equipment must occur within 30 calendar days of the acceptance of the order by the Contractor .    



Periodic inspection of delivery timelines.

6.15.2 Monthly Status Meeting

Contractor will prepare and provide report on status of task order related actions.



Weekly inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.15.3  Semi-Annual Review Meeting

Contractor will prepare and provide report on status of task order related actions.

Semi-Annual inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.19.1 – Monthly Inventory.

Report must include (but is not limited to) the following:  order received, valid order date, call order line number, CLIN, SLIN, description, customer, project, quantity, delivery location, make, model, DISA requestor, technical POC,  base price, extended price, DISA billing information (Resource Pools, BAN, K-Codes, etc.), estimated ship date, actual ship date, estimated delivery date, actual delivery, estimated install date, actual install,  actual provision date,  acceptance date, order status, and description.  



Periodic inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.19.3– Monthly Incident Report.

Report must include (but not limited to) the following:  description of incident, hardware makes and models, serial numbers, physical locations, (to include: site location, floor tile location, etc.), environment (SIPR/NIPR), date and time of incident, date and time of resolution, summary of action taken to resolve.



Periodic inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.19.4 Ad hoc reports.

Report to be requested by Government as required.

Periodic inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.21 Security Reports

Weekly Security Status Updates which includes:

 IAVA, IAVB status

Notification of satisfactory completion of each and informing Government that contractor is in compliance with FSO guidelines.



100% Inspection of security status report.



Task

Incentive

Full Operational Capability Reached in 6 months

2%

Full Operational Capability Reached in 7 months

1.5%

Full Operational Capability Reached in 8 months

1%

Full Operational Capability Reached in 9 months

.5%



Task

Disincentive

Full Operational Capability Reached in 11 months

-.5%

Full Operational Capability Reached in 12 months

-.5%

Full Operational Capability Reached in 13 months

-.5%

Full Operational Capability Reached in 14 months

-.5%



PWS Task#

Deliverable Title

Format

Due Date



Distribution/Copies

Distribution/Copies

Frequency and Remarks

6.1

Project Management Plan

Microsoft Word

30 days after task order award

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Draft - 15

Final – 30

Draft - 15

Final – 30

6.5.3

Escalation Procedures

Microsoft Word

30 days after task order award

Two Copies to COR; Letter Only to KO

Two Copies to COR; Letter Only to KO





6.11

Transition Plan

Microsoft Word

30 days after task order award

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Draft – 15

Final - 30

Draft – 15

Final - 30

6.15.3

Semi-Annual Review Meeting and Report

Contractor -Determined Format



Date to be determined by Govt

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Semi-Annual; 5th workday after meeting completion

Semi-Annual; 5th workday after meeting completion

6.15.4

Recurring teleconference and Report

Contractor -Determined Format

Date to be determined by Govt

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

At least weekly1st workday after meeting completion

At least weekly1st workday after meeting completion

6.15.4

Additional meeting/ Teleconferences as required and report

Contractor -Determined Format

Date to be determined by Government

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

3rd workday after meeting completion

3rd workday after meeting completion

6.19.1

Monthly Inventory Report

Contractor - Determined Format

5 workdays after previous month end

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Monthly, on 5th workday

Monthly, on 5th workday

6.19.2 

Weekly Order Summary

Contractor - Determined Format

5 workdays after previous month end

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Weekly

Weekly

6.19.3

Monthly Incident Summary

Contractor - Determined Format

5 workdays after previous month end

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Monthly, on 5th workday

Monthly, on 5th workday

6.21

Weekly Security Report

Contractor Determined format

Delivered weekly

Standard Distribution*

Standard Distribution*

Weekly

Weekly



A +

Network +

SSCP

GSEC

Security +

SCNP

SSCP

CISA

CISSP

GSE

SCNA

IAM Level 1

IAM Level II

IAM Level III

GISF

GSLC

Security+

GSLC

CISM

CISSP

GSLC

CISM

CISSP



CND Analyst

CND Infrastructure Support

CND Incident Responder

CND Auditor

CND-SP Manager

GCIA

SSCP

GCIH

CISA

CISSP-ISSMP





CSIH

GSNA

CISM



IASE I

IASE II

IASE III

CISSP (or Associate)

CISSP (or Associate)

ISSEP





ISSAP
Evaluation Table

|Table 1. Combined Technical/Risk Ratings                                                                                           |
|Color                |Rating                   |Description                                                                        |
|Blue                 |Outstanding              |Proposal meets requirements and  has the following characteristics:                |
|                     |                         |has multiple strengths and strengths far outweigh any weaknesses, and              |
|                     |                         |risk of unsuccessful performance is low.                                           |
|Purple               |Good                     |Proposal meets requirements and  has the following characteristics:                |
|                     |                         |strength(s) outweigh any weakness(es), and                                         |
|                     |                         |risk of unsuccessful performance is low.                                           |
|Green                |Acceptable               |Proposal meets requirements and has the following characteristics:                 |
|                     |                         |weaknesses do not outweigh strengths; or has no weaknesses and no strengths, and   |
|                     |                         |risk of unsuccessful performance is no greater than moderate.                      |
|Yellow               |Marginal                 |Proposal has any of the following characteristics:                                 |
|                     |                         |uncertainty whether it meets requirements,                                         |
|                     |                         |weaknesses outweigh strengths,                                                     |
|                     |                         |risk of unsuccessful performance is high.                                          |
|Red                  |Unacceptable             |Proposal does not meet requirements.                                               |














QUALITY ASSURANCE SURVEILLANCE PLAN (QASP)







1.  Contract or Task Order Title:  Global Content Delivery Capacity Services 



2.  Work Requirements:  



Task 1 – Global Content Delivery System Support



Task 2 – GCDS Repository with Global Traffic Management



Task 3 – GCDS High Definition Video Streaming



Task 4 - Industry Standards.   



Task 5 - Situational Awareness  



Task 6 – Standard Implementation Services



Task 7 - IPv6 Compliance



Task 8 - Mobile Device Support



Task 9 – Automated Capabilities



Task 10 - Date De-Duplication Technologies



Task 11 - Transition Strategy



Task 12 - Removal of Equipment



Task 13 - Media Retention



Task 14 - Delivery and Installation



Task 15 - Meeting Requirements



Task 16 - Acceptance



Task 17 - Deactivation



Task 18 - Invoice Creation and Billing Cycle



Task 19 -  Reporting Requirements



Task 20 - Performance and Availability



Task 21 – Security Accreditation 



3.  Primary Method of Surveillance:  



In an effort to minimize the contract administration burden, simplified methods of surveillance techniques shall be used by the Government to evaluate contractor performance.  The primary methods of surveillance are random checks, observations, inspections, complaints, and review of records and files required to be maintained and delivered under this contract.  The Government will use appointed representatives as well as reports and input from DISA personnel and visitors as sources of comments on the contractor’s performance.  Periodic sampling is scheduled for 6.1, 6.20, 6.20.2, 6.5, 6.2.1.1, 6.5.3, 6.1.14, 6.11.1, 6.14, 6.15, 6.19.1, 6.19.3, and  6.19.4.  There will be 100% inspection for 6.1.4, 6.1.5, 6.1.3.1, 6.20.4, and 6.21.1.



100 Percent Inspection.  This is usually the most appropriate method for infrequent tasks or tasks with stringent performance requirements, e.g., where safety or health is a concern.  With this method, performance is inspected/evaluated at each occurrence.  One hundred percent inspection is too expensive to be used in most cases.

Random Sampling.  This is usually the most appropriate method for recurring tasks.  With random sampling, services are sampled to determine if the level of performance is acceptable.  Random sampling works best when the number of instances of the services being performed is very large and a statistically valid sample can be obtained.  Computer programs may be available to assist in establishing sampling procedures.

Periodic Inspection. These services are monitored weekly, monthly, quarterly, semiannually, annually, etc.  Periodic types of activities are perfect for periodic inspection because not only are they infrequent, but there is normally a predetermined, specified time-frame within which the tasks must be accomplished.  Therefore, you know exactly when to conduct the evaluations.  Periodic inspections automatically become 100 percent evaluations or "100 percent checks."  Inspections should be divided and scheduled by frequency: annual, semiannual, quarterly, monthly, weekly, and as required.  Sometimes services are required for which the time or frequency cannot be predicted, such as accident investigations, one-time special tasking by higher headquarters, etc.  These would be labeled "as required inspections."  Others are known and predictable such as the quarterly status report or the monthly travel report currently included in some DISA service contracts.

Customer Input.  Although usually not a primary method, this is a valuable supplement to more systematic methods.  For example, in a case where random sampling indicates unsatisfactory service, customer complaints can be used as substantiating evidence.  In certain situations where customers can be relied upon to complain consistently when the quality of performance is poor (dining facilities, building services, customer surveys).  Customer complaints may be a primary surveillance method and customer satisfaction an appropriate performance standard.  In all cases, complaints should be documented, preferably on a standard form.

4.  Scope of Performance:  



The contractor will design, deliver, install, and maintain Global Content Delivery Services (GCDS) capacity infrastructure in concert with the Government at any of the current  DISA ESD computing facilities or future DISA ESD computing facilities in the continental US (CONUS), outside CONUS and other DISA or DISA approved locations worldwide.  The objective is for the contractor to provide content delivery services using a “utility-based contract concept”.  This utility concept requires that the contractor provide all assets and services needed for the content delivery service, with the exception of type I cryptographic devices and intrusion detection systems.  These assets shall include, but are not limited to, hardware, software, software maintenance and licensing, design capabilities, logistical support, field maintenance, and engineering support.  These services will include, but are not limited to, installation, racking and stacking of equipment, cabling, powering of device, and configuration related to the deployment and sustainment of the provided GCDS service.



This initiative will support unclassified and classified networks including SCI-level environments:



Non-Classified Internet Protocol Router Network (NIPRNet)

Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet)

Joint Worldwide Intelligence Communication System 

International Security Assistance Force 

Combined Enterprise Regional Information Exchange 

Similar-type networks deployed over time





5.  Performance Standards:  



See Attachment 1



6.  Acceptable Quality Level (AQL):



The Acceptable Quality Level (AQL) states the level of variation that the contractor may have from a performance standard.  MIL-STD-105D states that an AQL is “the maximum percent defective (or the maximum number of defects per hundred units) that, for purposes of sampling inspection, can be considered satisfactory as a process average.”



See Attachment 1  



7.  Evaluation Method:



Quarterly and annual program management reviews will be mutually agreed to between the contractor and ESD to evaluate performance metrics. 



Quarterly Program Management Reviews with ESD personnel to include:



Review overall program performance metrics and corrective actions, as appropriate

Review critical open items flagged by ESD, contractor or DITCO

Review summaries of the past quarter’s historical activities, including service deliveries, maintenance activities, call orders, and financial review

Develop corrective action plans, detailing key activities, areas of program improvement (if required), or expected issues that will need to be resolved

Review of possible contract changes



Annual Program Management Reviews with Contractor, ESD and DITCO to include:



Identify new technologies which could significantly benefit DISA operations and pricing

Review of possible contract changes



8.  Incentives (Positive and/or Negative):  



The positive incentive is prescribed below:



Any minimum standard surpassed on a continuous basis will be officially documented as a positive record in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).

The contractor will receive an incentive of 2% of the full transition cost when Full Operational Capability (FOC) is met within a six month period, 1.5% if FOC is completed in seven months, 1% if FOC is completed in eight months, and .5% if FOC is completed in nine months from the start date of contract award.  Performance standards are defined in Attachment J-4 QASP.  This incentive will only apply to the transition period of the contract.  The incentive will be calculated on the first full 30-day billing period following FOC completion within the noted timeframe, which begins on contract award date.  The measurement to determine if the incentive timeframe was achieved will entail making all three content delivery networks (NIPR/SIPR/CX-I) are operational.  A content delivery network is considered operational when it has Web delivery, NetStorage, and streaming capabilities available for consumption by DISA's customers.  Furthermore, all three CDNs will be considered operational once all of 800+ URLs have been transitioned from the legacy GCDS service to the new GCDS service.  Additionally, a declaration of complete FOC from the vendor will need to be submitted on or before the last day of the month for the incentive to be achieved.



The following negative incentives apply:



Any minimum standard not met will be officially documented as a negative record in the Contractor Performance Assessment Reporting System (CPARS).   

The contractor will be charged a -.5% disincentive fee per month exceeding the ten month expectation of Full Operational Capability.  The disincentive fee of -.5% will begin on the first day following the end of the tenth month if migration occurs after the performance standards defined in Attachment J-4 QASP.  The -.5% per month will be calculated on the first day of the eleventh month and will be charged monthly until FOC is reached.  FOC will be evaluated by the following standards: content delivery networks (NIPR/SIPR/CX-I) are operational.  A content delivery network is considered operational when it has Web delivery, NetStorage, and streaming capabilities available for consumption by DISA's customers.  Furthermore, all three CDNs will be considered operational once all of 800+ URLs have been transitioned from the legacy GCDS service to the new GCDS service.  Lastly, a declaration of complete FOC from the vendor will need to be submitted on or before the last day of the tenth month.        



The PWS and QASP will be modified to identify performance objectives and standards for other services as required. 



Attachment 1:











Performance Standard

Acceptable Quality Level

Method of Surveillance

Task 1 - 6.10 Provide solutions that meets Government objectives.

Hardware and/or solutions meets Government objective. 

Periodic inspection of Government requests and bill of materials provided until solution is met.

Subtask 6.1.4 –- Provide  fully accredited solution

Solution is fully DoD (DoD) accredited

100% inspection of accreditation package 

Subtask 6.1.5- Tactical Deployable Edge

Available for deployment 24/7/365

100% inspection of Tactical Deployable Edge

Task 6.20 Performance and Availability

Solution availability shall meet or exceed 99.95%.  Solution availability will be measured in 30 day periods and meet or exceed availability (minimum of 99.95% up to 99.999%) based on the calculation:  

(Total available hours for 30 days – Measurement Exceptions – Time server is unavailable) / (Total available hours for 30 days –Measurement Exceptions)*100=“Service Level Attained”.  Total available hours = 24x7x30 for each orderable system for each 30-day period

Periodic inspection of downtime reports

6.20.4 – Utility delivery and pricing 

Ability to increase and decrease  based on usage

100% inspection of invoicing

6.20.2 – Escalation/Problem Resolution, Help Desk.

 24x7/365 problem escalation/resolution support for hardware, operating system software, and capacity management.  Provide POCs, phone numbers, escalation chart.



Periodic inspection of downtime reports and number of hours to resolve issues.

6.5 -   Situational Awareness 

Provide situational awareness 24x7x365.  

Periodic inspection of situational awareness reports.

6.2.1.1 – Performance Optimization

GCDS shall be optimized for performance

Periodic inspection of Contractor reporting.

6.5.3 – Performance Monitoring.

Monitor edge locations including total bandwidth and hits.

Periodic inspection of contractor  logs reaching back to one year.



6.1.14  – Adverse Network Detection



Provide a visual tool in near real time to view network conditions



Periodic inspection of reports and monitoring of network connections

6.11.1– Implementation transition. 

Transition  must occur within 365 days of task order 

Periodic inspection of the transition process. 

6.14 Equipment Ready for Use

Delivery, installation, and make-ready for use of equipment must occur within 30 calendar days of the acceptance of the order by the contractor .    



Periodic inspection of delivery timelines.

6.15.2 Monthly Status Meeting

Contractor will prepare and provide report on status of task order related actions.



Weekly inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.15.3  Semi-Annual Review Meeting

Contractor will prepare and provide report on status of task order-related actions.

Semi-Annual inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.19.1 – Monthly Inventory.

Report must include (but is not limited to) the following:  order received, valid order date, call order line number, CLIN, SLIN, description, customer, project, quantity, delivery location, make, model, DISA requestor, technical POC, base price, extended price, DISA billing information (Resource Pools, BAN, K-Codes, etc.), estimated ship date, actual ship date, estimated delivery date, actual delivery, estimated install date, actual install,  actual provision date,  acceptance date, order status, and description.  



Periodic inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.19.3– Monthly Incident Report.

Report must include (but not limited to) the following:  description of incident, hardware makes and models, serial numbers, physical locations, (to include: site location, floor tile location, etc.), environment (SIPR/NIPR), date and time of incident, date and time of resolution, summary of action taken to resolve.



Periodic inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.19.4 Ad hoc reports.

Report to be requested by Government as required.

Periodic inspection of materials upon delivery.

6.21 Security Reports

Weekly Security Status Updates which includes:

 IAVA, IAVB status

Notification of satisfactory completion of each and informing Government that contractor is in compliance with FSO guidelines.



100% Inspection of security status report.GCDS CLIN Structure 





CLIN STRUCTURE:



Base Period (000X) and All Years (100X, 200X, & 300X):



X001	Transition In 

X002	Content Delivery

X003	Repository Storage

X004	Video Streaming

X005	Emerging Requirements (Optional)

X006	Surge (Optional)

X007	Transition Out



6-month Option Period (all CLINs priced as OPTIONAL):



4002	Content Delivery 

4003	Repository Storage

4004	Video Streaming

4005	Emerging Requirements
Global Content Delivery Capacity Services (GCDS) Unit Prices
CLINS/SLINS Description Unit of 
Measure Base Year 1 Base Year 2 Base Year 3 Option Year 1 Option Year 2 Option Year 3 6 Month Extension Total for all years
All CLIN/SLIN Prices are FFP & FOB Destination
0001 Transition In
0001AA Transition 'NIPR (HW/SW Equipment/Transportation)
0001AB Transition 'SIPR (HW/SW Equipment/Transportation)
0001AC Transition 'CXI-ISAF (HW/SW Equipment Transportation)
0001AD Travel
0002 Content Delivery
0002AA NIPRNet & SIPRNet GCDS Services HTTP(S)  
0002AB CX-I (ISAF) GCDS Services HTTP(S) 
0002AC NIPRNet & SIPRNet Additional Edge Region Deployment HTTP(S)
0002AD CX-I (ISAF) Additional Edge Region Deployment HTTP(S) 
0002AE NIPRNet and SIPRNet Global Network Operations (NETOPS) GCDS Service, 24x7 Service 
0002AF CX-I (ISAF) Global Network Operations (NETOPS) GCDS Service, 24x7 Service
0002AG NIPRNet and SIPRNet Professional Consulting Services 
0002AH CX-I (ISAF) Professional Consulting Services 
0002AJ NIPRNet & SIPRNet Advanced Engineering Services
0002AK ISAF Advanced Engineering Services
0002AL NIPRNet & SIPRNet Information Assurance Services
0002AM CX-I (ISAF) Information Assurance Services
0002AN NIPRNet & SIPRNet Web Application Firewall (optional capability to procure)
0002AO CX-I (ISAF)Web Application Firewall (optional capability to procure)
0002AP Travel 
0003 Repository Storage
0003AA NIPRNet & SIPRNet Global Traffic Management & GCDS Repository Capability Readiness 
0003AB NIPRNet & SIPRNet Additional Global Traffic Management Data Center Deployment
0003AC NIPRNet & SIPRNet Additional Repository Capacity
0003AD NIPRNet & SIPRNet Additional Capacity to Existing Repository
0003AE Travel
0004 Video Streaming
0004AA NIPRNet and SIPRNet HD Streaming Service, 24 X 7 Support 
0004AB NIPRNet and SIPRNet Additional Streaming Entrypoint Deployment for HD Streaming
0004AC NIPRNet and SIPRNet Additional Edge Region Deployment for HD Streaming
0004AD Travel 
0005 Transition Out
0005AA Transition 'NIPR (HW/SW Equipment/Transportation)
0005AB Transition 'SIPR (HW/SW Equipment/Transportation)
0005AC Transition 'CXI-ISAF (HW/SW Equipment Transportation)
0005AD Travel
Subtotal
0006 Emerging Requirements
0006AA Predetermined % based on each period
0007 Surge 
0007AA Plug Number 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 5833333.33333 75833333.3333
Total 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 11666666.6667 5833333.33333 75833333.3333
DD Form 254, DEC 1999 (EF)				PREVIOUS EDITIONS ARE OBSOLETE

DD Form 254 (BACK), DEC 1999

Continuation from DD Form 254 



ITEM 13:





DD Form 254 Reference Item 11a:  



All classified services rendered in performance of this contract will be conducted at designated government approved facilities.



Prior to contracted employees being granted access to designated DISA Computing Services sites and/or classified systems, the Contractor must provide a Visit Authorization Letter (VAL) on each employee requiring access to the COR for approval and need-to-know.  Once the clearance information is validated by DISA MPS through DISA Field Security Office, the COR will forward to the affected site.   To preclude from having to submit a VAL each time a site is to be visited, the duration of VAL may extend one year or the period-of-performance date of contract whichever is shorter.  The required information must be on company letterhead and contain the listed information:



Agency/Company name and address:

Name and address of facility to be visited:

Date(s) of visit:  

Purpose of visit:

Contract Number:

Hosting Facility POCs (government): full name and telephone number:



Visitors- 	Name:

		SSN:

		Date and place of birth:

		Citizenship:



Clearance-	Clearance level:

		Date Granted:

		Agency who granted clearance:

		Type Investigation:

		Date of investigation:



Agency/Company cognizant security office name and address:

Agency/Company clearance date -	Clearance/safeguarding levels:

					Date granted:

					CAGE code:



 Agency/Company security officer's -	Name:

					Telephone:

					Signature:

					Date:







                 3.	Foreign Nationals will not be authorized access to classified and/or DISA Computing Service sites without written approval from the Director of DISA or designated representative.      



DD Form 254 Reference Item 11e:



This contract is to provide DISA Computing Services with software, firmware and hardware support on both classified and unclassified automated systems/networks.  The contractor(s) will be responsible for acquiring, installing, configuring, and providing maintenance of hardware, firmware and operating software running at DISA Computing Data Centers.



The contractor’s actual knowledge, generation, or production of classified data and/or hardware is not required to perform services outlined by this contract.  However, access and clearance levels are required to perform services because escorting personnel cannot preclude exposure to classified information.  The contracted personnel assigned in support of this contract will be adjudicated to the Secret level based on a Single Scope Background investigation and awarded a sensitivity level of IT-I.  Many times an interim access/clearance level is granted pending completion of appropriate investigation and adjudication of subjects access and/or clearance request.  Given these circumstances and provided interim access/clearance level granted meets the required access/clearance level per contract, then a local determination to grant access to facilities, systems and/or data outlined by this contract and DD Form 254 may be approved using the VAL process outlined in item 13. A.2 of this document. Submission for clearances is the responsibility of the contractor.  



DISA retains the right to remove any contracting personnel regardless of prior clearance or adjudication status, whose actions, while assigned to this contract, clearly conflict with the interest of the Government.  The reason for removal will be fully documented in writing by the COR to the Contracting Officer (KO).  Upon removal the contractor shall provide a qualified person(s) to fill vacancy within 15 working days.



All systems; components and/or writeable media being removed from the site (I.E. hard drives, tape, floppies, CD-R etc.) will be sanitized in accordance with security regulations IAW the SOW.  The contractor must be aware that the sanitation process is to prevent any compromise of classified and/or controlled unclassified data and may render the system components and/or writeable media unserviceable and/or completely destroyed.   





DD Form 254 Reference Item 11g:



The contractor, at their discretion, may prepare and forward DD Form 1540 to the COR for authorization BEFORE the services may be requested.



Technical information on file at the Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC) will be made available to the contractor if the contractor requires such information.  The contracting officer will certify the field of interest relating to the contract.



All classification guidance required in the performance of this contract will be provided by the using activity.



The COR must be notified and approve the receipt and/or generation of classified information under this contract.



The contractor will not remove classified material and/or information from DISA Computing Services site.



All classified information received and/or generated under this contract is the property of the U.S. Government regardless of proprietary claims.  All exceptions to the security policy outlined in this document shall be referred to DISA Security Division (MPS6) for coordination with appropriate agencies and the contracting officer. 



DD Form 254 Reference Item 17f:



The Statement of Objectives, DD Form 254 and supporting documentation will be forwarded to DISA Industrial Security.





DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

1.  CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING

1.  CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING

1.  CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING

1.  CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING

1.  CLEARANCE AND SAFEGUARDING

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

a.  FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED

SECRET

a.  FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED

SECRET

a.  FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED

SECRET

a.  FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED

SECRET

a.  FACILITY CLEARANCE REQUIRED

SECRET

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

CONTRACT SECURITY CLASSIFICATION SPECIFICATION



(The requirements of the DoD Industrial Security Manual apply

to all security aspects of this effort.)

b.  LEVEL OF SAFEGUARDING REQUIRED

     

b.  LEVEL OF SAFEGUARDING REQUIRED

     

b.  LEVEL OF SAFEGUARDING REQUIRED

     

b.  LEVEL OF SAFEGUARDING REQUIRED

     

b.  LEVEL OF SAFEGUARDING REQUIRED

     

2.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR:  (X and complete as applicable)

2.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR:  (X and complete as applicable)

2.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR:  (X and complete as applicable)

2.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR:  (X and complete as applicable)

2.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR:  (X and complete as applicable)

2.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS FOR:  (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)

3.  THIS SPECIFICATION IS: (X and complete as applicable)



a.  PRIME CONTRACT NUMBER

     

a.  PRIME CONTRACT NUMBER

     

a.  PRIME CONTRACT NUMBER

     

a.  PRIME CONTRACT NUMBER

     

a.  PRIME CONTRACT NUMBER

     



a.  ORIGINAL (Complete date in all cases)

a.  ORIGINAL (Complete date in all cases)

a.  ORIGINAL (Complete date in all cases)

a.  ORIGINAL (Complete date in all cases)

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     



b.  SUBCONTRACT NUMBER

     

b.  SUBCONTRACT NUMBER

     

b.  SUBCONTRACT NUMBER

     

b.  SUBCONTRACT NUMBER

     

b.  SUBCONTRACT NUMBER

     



b.  REVISED (Supersedes

   all previous specs)

b.  REVISED (Supersedes

   all previous specs)

b.  REVISED (Supersedes

   all previous specs)

Revision No.

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     



c.  SOLICITATION OR OTHER NUMBER

     

DUE DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DUE DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DUE DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DUE DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     



c.  FINAL (Complete item 5 in all cases)

c.  FINAL (Complete item 5 in all cases)

c.  FINAL (Complete item 5 in all cases)

c.  FINAL (Complete item 5 in all cases)

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

DATE (YYYYMMDD)

     

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

4.  IS THIS A FOLLOW-ON CONTRACT?			YES		NO.	If yes, complete the following:

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

Classified material received or generated under  HC1013-07-D-2009  (Preceding Contract Number)  is transferred to this follow-on contract.

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

5.  IS THIS A FINAL DD FORM 254?			YES		NO. 	If yes, complete the following:

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

In response to the contractor's request dated       ,  retention of the classified material is authorized for the period of        

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

6.  CONTRACTOR (Include Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code)

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

7.  SUBCONTRACTOR

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

a.  NAME, ADDRESS, AND ZIP CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

8.  ACTUAL PERFORMANCE

a.  LOCATION

a.  LOCATION

a.  LOCATION

a.  LOCATION

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

b.  CAGE CODE

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE (Name, Address, and ZIP Code)

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

9.  GENERAL IDENTIFICATION OF THIS PROCUREMENT

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

     

10.  THIS CONTRACT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS TO:

10.  THIS CONTRACT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS TO:

10.  THIS CONTRACT WILL REQUIRE ACCESS TO:

YES

YES

NO

11.  IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:

11.  IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:

11.  IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:

11.  IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:

11.  IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:

11.  IN PERFORMING THIS CONTRACT, THE CONTRACTOR WILL:

YES

NO

a.  COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC) INFORMATION

a.  COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC) INFORMATION

a.  COMMUNICATIONS SECURITY (COMSEC) INFORMATION





X

a.  HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR'S FACILITY OR A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY

a.  HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR'S FACILITY OR A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY

a.  HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR'S FACILITY OR A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY

a.  HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR'S FACILITY OR A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY

a.  HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR'S FACILITY OR A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY

a.  HAVE ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION ONLY AT ANOTHER CONTRACTOR'S FACILITY OR A GOVERNMENT ACTIVITY

X



b.  RESTRICTED DATA

b.  RESTRICTED DATA

b.  RESTRICTED DATA





X

b.  RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY

b.  RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY

b.  RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY

b.  RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY

b.  RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY

b.  RECEIVE CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS ONLY



X

c.  CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION

c.  CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION

c.  CRITICAL NUCLEAR WEAPON DESIGN INFORMATION





X

c.  RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL

c.  RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL

c.  RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL

c.  RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL

c.  RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL

c.  RECEIVE AND GENERATE CLASSIFIED MATERIAL



X

d.  FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA

d.  FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA

d.  FORMERLY RESTRICTED DATA





X

d.  FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE

d.  FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE

d.  FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE

d.  FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE

d.  FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE

d.  FABRICATE, MODIFY, OR STORE CLASSIFIED HARDWARE



X

e.  INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION:

e.  INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION:

e.  INTELLIGENCE INFORMATION:







e.  PERFORM SERVICES ONLY

e.  PERFORM SERVICES ONLY

e.  PERFORM SERVICES ONLY

e.  PERFORM SERVICES ONLY

e.  PERFORM SERVICES ONLY

e.  PERFORM SERVICES ONLY

X



	(1) Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)

	(1) Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)

	(1) Sensitive Compartmented Information (SCI)





X

f.  HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S. POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES

f.  HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S. POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES

f.  HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S. POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES

f.  HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S. POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES

f.  HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S. POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES

f.  HAVE ACCESS TO U.S. CLASSIFIED INFORMATION OUTSIDE THE U.S., PUERTO RICO, U.S. POSSESSIONS AND TRUST TERRITORIES



X

	(2) Non-SCI

	(2) Non-SCI

	(2) Non-SCI





X

g.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFOR-MATION CENTER (DTIC) OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER

g.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFOR-MATION CENTER (DTIC) OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER

g.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFOR-MATION CENTER (DTIC) OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER

g.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFOR-MATION CENTER (DTIC) OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER

g.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFOR-MATION CENTER (DTIC) OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER

g.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE SERVICES OF DEFENSE TECHNICAL INFOR-MATION CENTER (DTIC) OR OTHER SECONDARY DISTRIBUTION CENTER

X



f.  SPECIAL ACCESS INFORMATION

f.  SPECIAL ACCESS INFORMATION

f.  SPECIAL ACCESS INFORMATION





X

h.  REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT

h.  REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT

h.  REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT

h.  REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT

h.  REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT

h.  REQUIRE A COMSEC ACCOUNT



X

g.  NATO INFORMATION

g.  NATO INFORMATION

g.  NATO INFORMATION





X

i.  HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS

i.  HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS

i.  HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS

i.  HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS

i.  HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS

i.  HAVE TEMPEST REQUIREMENTS



X

h.  FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION

h.  FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION

h.  FOREIGN GOVERNMENT INFORMATION





X

j.  HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS

j.  HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS

j.  HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS

j.  HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS

j.  HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS

j.  HAVE OPERATIONS SECURITY (OPSEC) REQUIREMENTS



X

i.  LIMITED DISSEMINATION INFORMATION

i.  LIMITED DISSEMINATION INFORMATION

i.  LIMITED DISSEMINATION INFORMATION





X

k.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE

k.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE

k.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE

k.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE

k.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE

k.  BE AUTHORIZED TO USE THE DEFENSE COURIER SERVICE



X

j.  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYINFORMATION

j.  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYINFORMATION

j.  FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLYINFORMATION

X

X



l.  OTHER (Specify)

l.  OTHER (Specify)

l.  OTHER (Specify)

l.  OTHER (Specify)

l.  OTHER (Specify)

l.  OTHER (Specify)





k.  OTHER (Specify)

     

k.  OTHER (Specify)

     

k.  OTHER (Specify)

     







     

     

     

     

     

     








12.   PUBLIC RELEASE.   Any Information (Classified Or Unclassified) Pertaining To This Contract Shall Not Be Released For Public Dissemination Except As Provided By The Industrial Security Manual Or Unless It Has Been Approved For Public Release By Appropriate U.S. Government Authority.  Proposed Public Releases Shall Be Submitted For Approval Prior To Release

		Direct			Through (Specify):	HQs DISA Public Affairs Office, Ft Meade, MD

              Public release of classified and/or controlled unclassified information is not authorized. 




12.   PUBLIC RELEASE.   Any Information (Classified Or Unclassified) Pertaining To This Contract Shall Not Be Released For Public Dissemination Except As Provided By The Industrial Security Manual Or Unless It Has Been Approved For Public Release By Appropriate U.S. Government Authority.  Proposed Public Releases Shall Be Submitted For Approval Prior To Release

		Direct			Through (Specify):	HQs DISA Public Affairs Office, Ft Meade, MD

              Public release of classified and/or controlled unclassified information is not authorized. 




12.   PUBLIC RELEASE.   Any Information (Classified Or Unclassified) Pertaining To This Contract Shall Not Be Released For Public Dissemination Except As Provided By The Industrial Security Manual Or Unless It Has Been Approved For Public Release By Appropriate U.S. Government Authority.  Proposed Public Releases Shall Be Submitted For Approval Prior To Release

		Direct			Through (Specify):	HQs DISA Public Affairs Office, Ft Meade, MD

              Public release of classified and/or controlled unclassified information is not authorized. 




12.   PUBLIC RELEASE.   Any Information (Classified Or Unclassified) Pertaining To This Contract Shall Not Be Released For Public Dissemination Except As Provided By The Industrial Security Manual Or Unless It Has Been Approved For Public Release By Appropriate U.S. Government Authority.  Proposed Public Releases Shall Be Submitted For Approval Prior To Release

		Direct			Through (Specify):	HQs DISA Public Affairs Office, Ft Meade, MD

              Public release of classified and/or controlled unclassified information is not authorized. 




12.   PUBLIC RELEASE.   Any Information (Classified Or Unclassified) Pertaining To This Contract Shall Not Be Released For Public Dissemination Except As Provided By The Industrial Security Manual Or Unless It Has Been Approved For Public Release By Appropriate U.S. Government Authority.  Proposed Public Releases Shall Be Submitted For Approval Prior To Release

		Direct			Through (Specify):	HQs DISA Public Affairs Office, Ft Meade, MD

              Public release of classified and/or controlled unclassified information is not authorized. 




12.   PUBLIC RELEASE.   Any Information (Classified Or Unclassified) Pertaining To This Contract Shall Not Be Released For Public Dissemination Except As Provided By The Industrial Security Manual Or Unless It Has Been Approved For Public Release By Appropriate U.S. Government Authority.  Proposed Public Releases Shall Be Submitted For Approval Prior To Release

		Direct			Through (Specify):	HQs DISA Public Affairs Office, Ft Meade, MD

              Public release of classified and/or controlled unclassified information is not authorized. 



to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) * for review.

* In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.

to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) * for review.

* In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.

to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) * for review.

* In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.

to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) * for review.

* In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.

to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) * for review.

* In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.

to the Directorate for Freedom of Information and Security Review, Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense (Public Affairs) * for review.

* In the case of non-DoD User Agencies, requests for disclosure shall be submitted to that agency.



13.  SECURITY GUIDANCE.  The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide recommended changes to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)



Additional security requirements may be contained within the DD Form 254 upon award of contract. 01252003



SEE ATTACHED Item 13 for additional security guidance. 



13.  SECURITY GUIDANCE.  The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide recommended changes to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)



Additional security requirements may be contained within the DD Form 254 upon award of contract. 01252003



SEE ATTACHED Item 13 for additional security guidance. 



13.  SECURITY GUIDANCE.  The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide recommended changes to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)



Additional security requirements may be contained within the DD Form 254 upon award of contract. 01252003



SEE ATTACHED Item 13 for additional security guidance. 



13.  SECURITY GUIDANCE.  The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide recommended changes to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)



Additional security requirements may be contained within the DD Form 254 upon award of contract. 01252003



SEE ATTACHED Item 13 for additional security guidance. 



13.  SECURITY GUIDANCE.  The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide recommended changes to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)



Additional security requirements may be contained within the DD Form 254 upon award of contract. 01252003



SEE ATTACHED Item 13 for additional security guidance. 



13.  SECURITY GUIDANCE.  The security classification guidance needed for this classified effort is identified below.  If any difficulty is encountered in applying this guidance or if any other contributing factor indicates a need for changes in this guidance, the contractor is authorized and encouraged to provide recommended changes to challenge the guidance or the classification assigned to any information or material furnished or generated under this contract; and to submit any questions for interpretation of this guidance to the official identified below.  Pending final decision, the information involved shall be handled and protected at the highest level of classification assigned or recommended. (Fill in as appropriate for the classified effort.  Attach, or forward under separate correspondence, any documents/guides/extracts referenced herein.  Add additional pages as needed to provide complete guidance.)



Additional security requirements may be contained within the DD Form 254 upon award of contract. 01252003



SEE ATTACHED Item 13 for additional security guidance. 



14.  ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.  Requirements, in addition to ISM requirements, are established for this contract.  (If Yes, identify the pertinent contractual clauses in the contract document itself, or provide an appropriate statement which identifies the additional requirements.  Provide a copy of the requirements to the cognizant security office.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





14.  ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.  Requirements, in addition to ISM requirements, are established for this contract.  (If Yes, identify the pertinent contractual clauses in the contract document itself, or provide an appropriate statement which identifies the additional requirements.  Provide a copy of the requirements to the cognizant security office.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





14.  ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.  Requirements, in addition to ISM requirements, are established for this contract.  (If Yes, identify the pertinent contractual clauses in the contract document itself, or provide an appropriate statement which identifies the additional requirements.  Provide a copy of the requirements to the cognizant security office.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





14.  ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.  Requirements, in addition to ISM requirements, are established for this contract.  (If Yes, identify the pertinent contractual clauses in the contract document itself, or provide an appropriate statement which identifies the additional requirements.  Provide a copy of the requirements to the cognizant security office.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





14.  ADDITIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.  Requirements, in addition to ISM requirements, are established for this contract.  (If Yes, identify the pertinent contractual clauses in the contract document itself, or provide an appropriate statement which identifies the additional requirements.  Provide a copy of the requirements to the cognizant security office.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     



	YES		NO



15. INSPECTIONS.  Elements of this contract are outside the inspection responsibility of the cognizant security office.  (If Yes, explain and identify specific areas or elements carved out and the activity responsible for inspections.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





15. INSPECTIONS.  Elements of this contract are outside the inspection responsibility of the cognizant security office.  (If Yes, explain and identify specific areas or elements carved out and the activity responsible for inspections.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





15. INSPECTIONS.  Elements of this contract are outside the inspection responsibility of the cognizant security office.  (If Yes, explain and identify specific areas or elements carved out and the activity responsible for inspections.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





15. INSPECTIONS.  Elements of this contract are outside the inspection responsibility of the cognizant security office.  (If Yes, explain and identify specific areas or elements carved out and the activity responsible for inspections.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     





15. INSPECTIONS.  Elements of this contract are outside the inspection responsibility of the cognizant security office.  (If Yes, explain and identify specific areas or elements carved out and the activity responsible for inspections.  Use item 13 if additional space is needed.)



     



	YES		NO

16.  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.  Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.

16.  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.  Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.

16.  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.  Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.

16.  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.  Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.

16.  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.  Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.

16.  CERTIFICATION AND SIGNATURE.  Security requirements stated herein are complete and adequate for safeguarding the classified information to be released or generated under this classified effort.  All questions shall be referred to the official named below.

a.  TYPED NAME OF CERTIFYING OFFICIAL

b.  TITLE

b.  TITLE

b.  TITLE

c.  TELEPHONE (Include Area Code)

c.  TELEPHONE (Include Area Code)

     

     

     

     

     

     

d.  ADDRESS (Include Zip Code)

d.  ADDRESS (Include Zip Code)

17.  REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION

17.  REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION

17.  REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION

17.  REQUIRED DISTRIBUTION

     

     



a.  CONTRACTOR

a.  CONTRACTOR

a.  CONTRACTOR

     

     



b.  SUBCONTRACTOR

b.  SUBCONTRACTOR

b.  SUBCONTRACTOR

     

     



c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE FOR PRIME AND SUBCONTRACTOR

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE FOR PRIME AND SUBCONTRACTOR

c.  COGNIZANT SECURITY OFFICE FOR PRIME AND SUBCONTRACTOR

e.  SIGNATURE

e.  SIGNATURE



d.  U.S. ACTIVITY RESPONSIBLE FOR OVERSEAS SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

d.  U.S. ACTIVITY RESPONSIBLE FOR OVERSEAS SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

d.  U.S. ACTIVITY RESPONSIBLE FOR OVERSEAS SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

     

     



e.  ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRACTING OFFICER

e.  ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRACTING OFFICER

e.  ADMINISTRATIVE CONTRACTING OFFICER

     

     

X

f.  OTHERS AS NECESSARY

f.  OTHERS AS NECESSARY

f.  OTHERS AS NECESSARY

Section B - Supplies or Services and Prices




|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0001           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Transition In                                                                                         |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 1-12                                                                               |                                       |
|               |                                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0002           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Content Delivery                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 1-36                                                                               |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0003           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Repository Storage                                                                                    |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 1-36                                                                               |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0004           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|               |Video Streaming                                                                                       |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 1-36                                                                               |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0005           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Emerging Requirements (Optional)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 1-36                                                                               |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|0006           |                               |                     |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Surge (Optional)                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Surge Support. This CLIN allows the Government to request an increase in the level of effort through a|                                       |
|               |contract modification, which may be issued at any time during the lifecycle of the performance period,|                                       |
|               |as identified in the attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) dated May 30, 2014.                    |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|1002           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Content Delivery                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 1 Period Months 37-48                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|1003           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Repository Storage                                                                                    |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 1 Period Months 37-48                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|1004           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Video Streaming                                                                                       |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 1 Period Months 37-48                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|1005           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Emerging Requirements (Optional)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 37-48                                                                              |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|1006           |                               |                     |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Surge (Optional)                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Surge Support. This CLIN allows the Government to request an increase in the level of effort through a|                                       |
|               |contract modification, which may be issued at any time during the lifecycle of the performance period,|                                       |
|               |as identified in the attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) dated May 30, 2014.                    |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |







|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|2002           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Content Delivery                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 2 Period Months 49-60                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|2003           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Repository Storage                                                                                    |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 2 Period Months 49-60                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|2004           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Video Streaming                                                                                       |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 2 Period Months 49-60                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|2005           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Emerging Requirements (Optional)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 49-60                                                                              |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|2006           |                               |                     |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Surge (Optional)                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Surge Support. This CLIN allows the Government to request an increase in the level of effort through a|                                       |
|               |contract modification, which may be issued at any time during the lifecycle of the performance period,|                                       |
|               |as identified in the attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) dated May 30, 2014.                    |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3002           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Content Delivery                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 3 Period Months 61-72                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3003           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Repository Storage                                                                                    |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 3 Period Months 61-72                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3004           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Video Streaming                                                                                       |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 3 Period Months 61-72                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3005           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Emerging Requirements (Optional)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Base Period Months 61-72                                                                              |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3006           |                               |                     |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Surge (Optional)                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Surge Support. This CLIN allows the Government to request an increase in the level of effort through a|                                       |
|               |contract modification, which may be issued at any time during the lifecycle of the performance period,|                                       |
|               |as identified in the attached Performance Work Statement (PWS) dated May 30, 2014.                    |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|3007           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Transition Out                                                                                        |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |Option Year 3 Period Months 61-72                                                                     |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|4002           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Content Delivery                                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |6 Month Option Period in accordance with FAR 52.217-8                                                 |                                       |
|               |Months 73-78                                                                                          |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|4003           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Repository Storage                                                                                    |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |6 Month Option Period in accordance with FAR 52.217-8                                                 |                                       |
|               |Months 73-78                                                                                          |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|4004           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Video Streaming                                                                                       |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |6 Month Option Period in accordance with FAR 52.217-8                                                 |                                       |
|               |Months 73-78                                                                                          |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |









|ITEM NO        |SUPPLIES/SERVICES              |QUANTITY             |UNIT            |UNIT PRICE                     |AMOUNT                                 |
|4005           |                               |1                    |Lot             |                               |                                       |
|OPTION         |Emerging Requirements (Optional)                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Global Content Delivery Services                                                                      |                                       |
|               |FFP                                                                                                   |                                       |
|               |Reference Atch J-6 Cost Model                                                                         |                                       |
|               |6 Month Option Period in accordance with FAR 52.217-8                                                 |                                       |
|               |Months 73-78                                                                                          |                                       |
|               |FOB: Destination                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                      |                               |                                       |
|                                                                                                                      |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|                                                                                      |NET AMT                        |                                       |
|                                                                                                                                                               |
|               |                                                                      |                               |                                       |






MINIMUM/MAXIMUM
MINIMUM/MAXIMUM
The minimum contract amount for a single award will be $10K for the entire three year base period. The maximum contract ceiling amount is $469M
over the three year  base period and three one-year options. There shall be no minimum guarantee for any option years.
Stated Minimum - $10K
Stated Maximum - $469M

Section E - Inspection and Acceptance




INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE TERMS

Supplies/services will be inspected/accepted at:

|CLIN      |INSPECT AT                                  |INSPECT BY           |ACCEPT AT                                   |ACCEPT BY            |
|0001      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|0002      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|0003      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|0004      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|0005      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|0006      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|1002      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|1003      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|1004      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|1005      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|1006      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|2002      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|2003      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|2004      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|2005      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|2006      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|3002      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|3003      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|3004      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|3005      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|3006      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|3007      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|4002      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|4003      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|4004      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |
|4005      |N/A                                         |N/A                  |N/A                                         |Government           |


Section F - Deliveries or Performance




DELIVERY INFORMATION

|CLIN      |DELIVERY DATE                    |QUANTITY               |SHIP TO ADDRESS                                         |UIC           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0001      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0002      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0003      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0004      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0005      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|0006      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|1002      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|1003      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|1004      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|1005      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|1006      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|2002      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|2003      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|2004      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|2005      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|2006      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3002      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3003      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3004      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3005      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3006      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|3007      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|4002      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|4003      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|4004      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |
|          |                                 |                       |                                                        |              |
|4005      |N/A                              |N/A                    |N/A                                                     |N/A           |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.242-15               |Stop-Work Order                                                           |AUG 1989         |                       |
|52.242-17               |Government Delay Of Work                                                  |APR 1984         |                       |


Section G - Contract Administration Data

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|252.204-7003            |Control Of Government Personnel Work Product                              |APR 1992         |                       |
|252.204-7006            |Billing Instructions                                                      |OCT 2005         |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT



52.204-9000 Points of Contact

As prescribed in 4.103(S-90), insert the following clause:

                                                           POINTS OF CONTACT (AUG 2005)

Contracting Officer (KO)
Name:  Jacqueline Johnson
Organization/Office Symbol:  DITCO/PL8322
Phone No.:  618-229-9351
E-Mail Address:  Jacqueline.D.Johnson20.civ@mail.mil

Contract Specialist
Name:  Kyle Martin
Organization/Office Symbol:  DITCO/PL8322
Phone No.:  618-229-9363
E-Mail Address:  Kyle.E.Martin24.civ@mail.mil

COR/Mission Partner Point of Contact (Note: To be filled in upon contract award)
Name:
Organization/Office Symbol:
Phone No.:
E-Mail Address:

Contractor Point of Contact
Contractor Legal Business Name:
DUNS:
CAGE CODE:
Contractor POC:
E-Mail Address:
Phone Number:
Fax Number:

                                                                 (End of clause)



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.204-9001 Contract/Order Closeout—Fixed-Price, Time-and-Materials, or Labor-Hours (Jan 2007)

Timely contract closeout is a priority under this contract/order.  The Contractor shall submit a final invoice within ninety (90) calendar days
after the expiration of this contract/order, unless the Contractor requests and is granted an extension by the Contracting Officer, in writing.
In addition, and concurrent with the submission of the final invoice, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer of the amount of
excess funds that can be deobligated from this contract/order so the closeout process can begin as soon as possible upon expiration of this
contract/order.  A bilateral contract/order closeout modification will be forwarded to the Contractor by the Contracting Officer and must be
signed by the Contractor and returned to the Contracting Officer within thirty (30) calendar days of issuance of the modification.  A
Contractor’s failure to respond and/or sign the bilateral closeout modification within thirty (30) calendar days of receipt will constitute
approval of the terms of the modification and the modification will subsequently be processed unilaterally by the Contracting Officer to
deobligate excess funds and close this contract/order.

If this contract/order contains option periods, the Contractor is required to submit an invoice within ninety (90) calendar days after
expiration of the base period of performance and the expiration of each exercised option period of performance to allow for deobligation of
excess funds that were obligated in those respective periods of performance.
(End of clause)



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.237-9001  Enterprise-wide Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (eCMRA) Reporting.
As prescribed in 37.102-90, use the following clause:
ENTERPRISE-WIDE Contractor Manpower Reporting Application (eCMRA) Reporting   (NOV 2013)

The contractor shall ensure ALL contractor labor hours (including subcontractor labor hours) required for the performance of services provided
under this contract are reported via a secure data collection site.

The contractor (and all subcontractors providing direct labor under this contract) shall report complete and accurate data for the labor
executed during the period of performance during each Government fiscal year (FY), which runs from October 1 to September 30.  The Contractor
shall input the data into the appropriate eCMRA reporting tool, which can be accessed via a secure web site at http://www.ecmra.mil/.  There are
four separate eCMRA tools: Army, Air Force, Navy and All Other Defense Components.  The appropriate eCMRA reporting tool to use is determined by
the requiring activity being supported (e.g., if DISA awards a contract for an Air Force requiring activity, the contractor shall load the
required reporting data in the “Department of Air Force CMRA” tool).  While inputs may be reported any time during the FY, all data shall be
reported no later than October 31 of each calendar year.  The contractor shall completely fill in all required data fields.  The contractor
shall enter initial data into the appropriate eCMRA tool to establish the basic contract record no later than 15 working days after receipt of
contract award or contract modification incorporating this clause.  The contractor shall notify the COR when the basic contract record has been
established in the appropriate eCMRA tool.

eCMRA User Manuals and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) are available at http://www.ecmra.mil/

Contractors may direct technical questions to the eCMRA help desk at
dodcmra@pentagon.af.mil
.

                                                                 (End of clause)




252.232-7006 WIDE AREA WORKFLOW PAYMENT INSTRUCTIONS (MAY 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

Department of Defense Activity Address Code (DoDAAC) is a six position code that uniquely identifies a unit, activity, or organization.

Document type means the type of payment request or receiving report available for creation in Wide Area WorkFlow (WAWF).

Local processing office (LPO) is the office responsible for payment certification when payment certification is done external to the entitlement
system.

(b) Electronic invoicing. The WAWF system is the method to electronically process vendor payment requests and receiving reports, as authorized
by DFARS 252.232-7003, Electronic Submission
of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports.

(c) WAWF access. To access WAWF, the Contractor shall--

(1) Have a designated electronic business point of contact in the System for Award Management at https://www.acquisition.gov; and

(2) Be registered to use WAWF at https://wawf.eb.mil/ following the step-by-step procedures for self-registration available at this Web site.

(d) WAWF training. The Contractor should follow the training instructions of the WAWF Web-Based Training Course and use the Practice Training
Site before submitting payment requests through
WAWF. Both can be accessed by selecting the “Web Based Training” link on the WAWF home page at https://wawf.eb.mil/.

(e) WAWF methods of document submission. Document submissions may be via Web entry, Electronic Data Interchange, or File Transfer Protocol.

(f) WAWF payment instructions. The Contractor must use the following information when submitting payment requests and receiving reports in WAWF
for this contract/order:

(1) Document type. The Contractor shall use the following document type(s).

Combo

(Contracting Officer: Insert applicable document type(s). Note: If a “Combo” document type is identified but not supportable by the Contractor's
business systems, an “Invoice” (stand-alone) and
“Receiving Report” (stand-alone) document type may be used instead.)

(2) Inspection/acceptance location. The Contractor shall select the following inspection/acceptance location(s) in WAWF, as specified by the
contracting officer.

N/A

(Contracting Officer: Insert inspection and acceptance locations or “Not applicable”.)

(3) Document routing. The Contractor shall use the information in the Routing Data Table below only to fill in applicable fields in WAWF when
creating payment requests and receiving reports in the
system.

Routing Data Table*
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Field Name in WAWF                Data to be entered in WAWF
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Pay Official DoDAAC               HQ0131
Issue By DoDAAC              HC1028
Admin DoDAAC                      HC1028
Inspect By DoDAAC                 ____
Ship To Code                      ____
Ship From Code                    ____
Mark For Code                     ____
Service Approver (DoDAAC)         H98272
Service Acceptor (DoDAAC)         H98272
Accept at Other DoDAAC       ____
LPO DoDAAC                   ____
DCAA Auditor DoDAAC               ____
Other DoDAAC(s)              ____
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

(*Contracting Officer: Insert applicable DoDAAC information or “See schedule” if multiple ship to/acceptance locations apply, or “Not
applicable.”)

(4) Payment request and supporting documentation. The Contractor shall ensure a payment request includes appropriate contract line item and
subline item descriptions of the work performed or supplies delivered, unit price/cost per unit, fee (if applicable), and all relevant back-up
documentation, as defined in DFARS Appendix F, (e.g. timesheets) in support of each payment request.

(5) WAWF email notifications. The Contractor shall enter the email address identified below in the “Send Additional Email Notifications” field
of WAWF once a document is submitted in the system.
Name:
Phone:
Email Address:

(g) WAWF point of contact. (1) The Contractor may obtain clarification regarding invoicing in WAWF from the following contracting activity's
WAWF point of contact.
N/A

(2) For technical WAWF help, contact the WAWF helpdesk at 866-618-5988.

(End of clause)



52.216-9202
52.216-9202 DELIVERY ORDERS  (JUN 1996)
(F502 Previously)

    a.  Orders for global content delivery services  may be placed during the Base period of performance and Option Years One, Two, and Three
(provided each applicable option year is exercised).

    b.  The delivery order becomes effective when the order is signed (effective date) and extends through the expiration of the current
contract period.  Prior to the expiration date, delivery orders may be renewed by the issuance of a new delivery order.

    c.  The ordering period is stated in FAR 52.216-18, Ordering, Section I.  The total amount of all delivery orders placed against the
contract resulting from the solicitation may not exceed the maximum contract ceiling amount of $469M. There shall be no minimum guarantee for
any option year.

    d.  DISA/DITCO is the only activity authorized to place delivery orders against this contract. DISA/DITCO may issue Electronic Task Orders
(ETOs), delivery orders and other correspondence to contractor via email.

    e.  DISA/DITCO will issue delivery orders with funding to be used for the purchase of services. Using an agreed upon call order process
between the Government and the Contractor, call orders will be issued via electronic mail to order the actual services. While the contractor
must invoice against the Delivery Order, the invoice must reference all applicable call orders.

Section H - Special Contract Requirements

52.204-9201
52.204-9201     SECURITY CLEARANCE           (JUN 1996)
(H507 Previously)
Within 30 days after the effective date of this contract, the contractor shall submit the paperwork necessary to obtain the proper security
clearances.  See DD Form 254, Section J, Attachment 7.



CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.239-9001  DATA INFORMATION ASSURANCE PROTECTION  (JULY 2006)

(a) The contractor shall protect and safeguard sensitive Government Provided Information (GFI) and data from inadvertent disclosure, misuse,
display, theft, and unauthorized actions that would destroy or render the information unavailable for specific government use.  Should the
contractor, or one of his/her employees, make any inadvertent or any unauthorized disclosure(s) or willfully participate in activities that
result in detrimental harm to the protection and safeguarding of sensitive (GFI) and data, such actions may be considered to be a breach of this
contract and the terms of the Default clause may be invoked.  The contractor shall afford safeguarding consistent with the protection
requirements identified by the government until such time the government deems the information/data is no longer sensitive and provides
corresponding written notification to the contractor.

(b) All contractor and support contractor personnel with access to DISA and DOD Information Systems shall complete initial information assurance
awareness and annual refresher training in accordance with DOD Directive, 8570.1, IA Training, Certification, and Workforce Management.

(c) To support IA professionals, the DoD IA Portal (IA Support Environment (IASE)) provides DOD IA policy-training requirements and DoD
sponsored training.  The IA Portal is located at http://iase.disa.mil.  This site also provides access to DOD Directive 8500.1, Information
Assurance (IA), and DOD 8570.1-M, Information Assurance Workforce Improvement Program.

                                                                 (End of clause)


52.216-9201
52.216-9201 PRICE GUARANTEE  (JUN 1996)
(H514 Previously)
    a.  The prices contained in this contract shall apply from date of contract award through a period ending 72 months from the date of
contract award. The clause shall apply up to an additional 6 months if the contract is extended in accordance with FAR Clause 52.217-8.

Section I - Contract Clauses

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.202-1                |Definitions                                                               |NOV 2013         |                       |
|52.203-3                |Gratuities                                                                |APR 1984         |                       |
|52.203-12               |Limitation On Payments To Influence Certain Federal Transactions          |OCT 2010         |                       |
|52.204-2                |Security Requirements                                                     |AUG 1996         |                       |
|52.204-4                |Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Postconsumer Fiber Content Paper        |MAY 2011         |                       |
|52.204-7                |System for Award Management                                               |JUL 2013         |                       |
|52.204-9                |Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel                    |JAN 2011         |                       |
|52.209-10               |Prohibition on Contracting With Inverted Domestic Corporations            |MAY 2012         |                       |
|52.212-4                |Contract Terms and Conditions--Commercial Items                           |SEP 2013         |                       |
|52.215-8                |Order of Precedence--Uniform Contract Format                              |OCT 1997         |                       |
|52.217-2                | Cancellation Under Multiyear Contracts                                   |OCT 1997         |                       |
|52.222-50               |Combating Trafficking in Persons                                          |FEB 2009         |                       |
|52.223-18               |Encouraging Contractor Policies To Ban Text Messaging While Driving       |AUG 2011         |                       |
|52.225-25               |Prohibition on Contracting with Entities Engaging in Certain Activities or|DEC 2012         |                       |
|                        |Transactions Relating to Iran-- Representation and Certifications.        |                 |                       |
|52.228-5                |Insurance - Work On A Government Installation                             |JAN 1997         |                       |
|52.233-1                |Disputes                                                                  |JUL 2002         |                       |
|52.233-3                |Protest After Award                                                       |AUG 1996         |                       |
|52.233-4                |Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim                               |OCT 2004         |                       |
|52.237-2                |Protection Of Government Buildings, Equipment, And Vegetation             |APR 1984         |                       |
|52.237-3                |Continuity Of Services                                                    |JAN 1991         |                       |
|52.242-13               |Bankruptcy                                                                |JUL 1995         |                       |
|52.246-25               |Limitation Of Liability--Services                                         |FEB 1997         |                       |
|52.247-34               |F.O.B. Destination                                                        |NOV 1991         |                       |
|52.248-1                |Value Engineering                                                         |OCT 2010         |                       |
|52.249-2                |Termination For Convenience Of The Government (Fixed-Price)               |APR 2012         |                       |
|52.253-1                |Computer Generated Forms                                                  |JAN 1991         |                       |
|252.201-7000            |Contracting Officer's Representative                                      |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.203-7000            |Requirements Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials             |SEP 2011         |                       |
|252.203-7002            |Requirement to Inform Employees of Whistleblower Rights                   |SEP 2013         |                       |
|252.203-7005            |Representation Relating to Compensation of Former DoD Officials           |NOV 2011         |                       |
|252.204-7000            |Disclosure Of Information                                                 |AUG 2013         |                       |
|252.204-7005            |Oral Attestation of Security Responsibilities                             |NOV 2001         |                       |
|252.205-7000            |Provision Of Information To Cooperative Agreement Holders                 |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.209-7004            |Subcontracting With Firms That Are Owned or Controlled By The Government  |DEC 2006         |                       |
|                        |of a Terrorist Country                                                    |                 |                       |
|252.219-7003            |Small Business Subcontracting Plan (DOD Contracts)                        |AUG 2012         |                       |
|252.225-7001            |Buy American And Balance Of Payments Program                              |DEC 2012         |                       |
|252.225-7002            |Qualifying Country Sources As Subcontractors                              |DEC 2012         |                       |
|252.225-7012            |Preference For Certain Domestic Commodities                               |FEB 2013         |                       |
|252.225-7041            |Correspondence in English                                                 |JUN 1997         |                       |
|252.227-7015            |Technical Data--Commercial Items                                          |JUN 2013         |                       |
|252.232-7003            |Electronic Submission of Payment Requests and Receiving Reports           |JUN 2012         |                       |
|252.232-7008            |Assignment of Claims (Overseas)                                           |JUN 1997         |                       |
|252.232-7010            |Levies on Contract Payments                                               |DEC 2006         |                       |
|252.237-7010            |Prohibition on Interrogation of Detainees by Contractor Personnel         |JUN 2013         |                       |
|252.239-7001            |Information Assurance Contractor Training and Certification               |JAN 2008         |                       |
|252.243-7001            |Pricing Of Contract Modifications                                         |DEC 1991         |                       |
|252.243-7002            |Requests for Equitable Adjustment                                         |DEC 2012         |                       |
|252.246-7004            |Safety of Facilities, Infrastructure, and Equipment for Military          |OCT 2010         |                       |
|                        |Operations                                                                |                 |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.209-9000  ORGANIZATIONAL AND CONSULTANT CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (OCCI)  (DEC 2005)

(a)  An offeror shall identify in its proposal, quote, bid or any resulting contract, any potential or actual Organizational and Consultant
Conflicts of Interest (OCCI) as described in FAR Subpart 9.5.  This includes actual or potential conflicts of interests of proposed
subcontractors.  If an offeror identifies in its proposal, quote, bid or any resulting contract, a potential or actual conflict of interests the
offeror shall submit an Organizational and Consultant Conflicts of Interest Plan (OCCIP) to the contracting officer.  The OCCIP shall describe
how the offeror addresses potential or actual conflicts of interest and identify how they will avoid, neutralize, or mitigate present or future
conflicts of interest.

(b)  Offerors must consider whether their involvement and participation raises any OCCI issues, especially in the following areas when:

     (1)  Providing systems engineering and technical direction.

     (2)  Preparing specifications or work statements and/or objectives.

     (3)  Providing evaluation services.

     (4)  Obtaining access to proprietary information.

(c)  If a prime contractor or subcontractor breaches any of the OCCI restrictions, or does not disclose or misrepresents any relevant facts
concerning its conflict of interest, the government may take appropriate action, including terminating the contract, in additional to any
remedies that may be otherwise permitted by the contract or operation of law.

                                                                 (End of clause)




52.212-5     CONTRACT TERMS AND CONDITIONS REQUIRED TO IMPLEMENT STATUTES OR EXECUTIVE ORDERS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (SEP 2013)

(a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by
reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items:

(1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

 ___    Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553).

(3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78).

(b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in
this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (Contracting
Officer check as appropriate.)

 _x_   (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10
U.S.C. 2402).

_x _ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).

____  (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-
5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.)

_X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (July 2013) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).

___  (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act—Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5).

_X_  (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment.
(Aug, 2013) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note).

_X__ (7) 52.209-9, Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (July 2013) (41 U.S.C. 2313).

____ (8) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (MAY 2012) (section 738 of Division C of Pub. L. 112-74,
section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161).

____ (9) 52.219-3, Notice of HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a).

____ (10) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the
preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a).

____ (11) [Reserved]

____ (12)(i)  52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644).

____ (ii) Alternate I (NOV 2011).

____ (iii) Alternate II (NOV 2011).

____ (13)(i)  52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644).

____ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7.

____ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7.

_x__ (14) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (July 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)).

____ (15)(i)  52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (July 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)).

____ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

____ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9.

____ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9.

____ (16) 52.219-13, Notice of Set-Aside of Orders (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 644(r)).

____ (17) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).

_X__ (18) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages—Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)).

____ (19)(i)  52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (Oct 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the
offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer).

____ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23.

____ (20) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (July 2013) (Pub. L. 103-355, section
7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323).

____ (21) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program— Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and
10 U.S.C. 2323).

____ (22) 52.219-27, Notice of Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business Set-Aside (NOV 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657f).

_x__ (23)  52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (July 2013) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)).

____ (24) 52.219-29, Notice of Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged Women-Owned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (July 2013) (15 U.S.C.
637(m)).

____ (25) 52.219-30, Notice of Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (July 2013) (15 U.S.C.
637(m)).

_x__ (26) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755).

_x__ (27) 52.222-19, Child Labor—Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (MAR 2012) (E.O. 3126).

_x__ (28) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999).

_x__ (29) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246).

_x__ (30) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212).

_x__ (31) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793).

_x__ (32) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

_X__ (33) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496).

_X__ (34) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (Jul 2012). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially
available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.)

____ (35)(i)  52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA–Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)).
(Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.)

____ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-
shelf items.)

____ (36) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (Dec 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).

____ (37)(i)  52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (Dec 2007) (E.O. 13423).

____ (ii) Alternate I (Dec 2007) of 52.223-16.

____ (38) 52.223-18, Encouraging Contractor Policies to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (Aug 2011) (E.O. 13513).

_x__ (39) 52.225-1, Buy American Act—Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d).

____(40)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (NOV 2012) (41 U.S.C. chapter 83, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19
U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, 19 U.S.C. 4001 note, Pub. L. 103-182, 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, 110-
138, 112-41, 112-42, and 112-43).

 (ii) Alternate I (MAR 2012) of 52.225-3.

 (iii) Alternate II (MAR 2012) of 52.225-3.

 (iv) Alternate III (NOV 2012) of 52.225-3.

____ (41) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (Sep 2013) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note).

_x__ (42) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.’s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of
Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury).

____ (43) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note).

____ (44) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150

____ (45) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150).

____ (46) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

____ (47) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)).

_x__ (48) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—System for Award Management (July 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

____ (49) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer—Other than System for Award Management (July 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

____ (50) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (July 2013) (31 U.S.C. 3332).

_x__  (51) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a).

____ (52)(i)  52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631).

____ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64.

(c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has
indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of
commercial items: (Contracting Officer check as appropriate.)

_____ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

_____ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

_____ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29
U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

_____ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act—Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

_____ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain
Equipment—Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.).

_____ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services—Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).

_____ (7) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O.13495).

_____ (8) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247).

_____ (9) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)).

(d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was
awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit
and Records--Negotiation.

(1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to
examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract.

(2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination,
audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor
Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the
work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the
disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such
appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved.

(3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and
regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary
course of business or pursuant to a provision of law.

(e) (1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to
flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1)in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the
extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause—

(i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (APR 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note).

(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jul 2013) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further
subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for
construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting
opportunities.

(iii) 52.222-17, Nondisplacement of Qualified Workers (JAN 2013) (E.O. 13495). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (l) of FAR clause
52.222-17.

(iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (MAR 2007) (E.O. 11246).

(v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212).

(vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (OCT 1998) (29 U.S.C. 793).

(vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (DEC 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in
accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40.

(viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

(ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (FEB 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

Alternate I (AUG 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)).

(x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--
Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

(xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (FEB 2009) (41 U.S.C.
351, et seq.).

(xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JUL 2012).

(xiii) 52.225-26, Contractors Performing Private Security Functions Outside the United States (Jul 2013) (Section 862, as amended, of the
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008; 10 U.S.C. 2302 Note).

(xiv) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations. (MAR 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with
paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.226-6.

(xv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (FEB 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down
required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64.

(2) While not required, the contractor May include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to
satisfy its contractual obligations.

(End of clause)






52.216-18      Ordering. (OCT 1995)

(a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the
individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from contract award through 60 months if all option years are
exercised.  The last option year is for transition only.

(b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery
order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control.

(c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued
orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule.

(End of clause)



52.216-19      Order Limitations.  (OCT 1995)

(a) Minimum order.  When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $100 the Government is
not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract.

(b) Maximum order.  The Contractor is not obligated to honor:

(1) Any order for a single item in excess of $500,000.00;

(2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of $10,000,000.00; or

(3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within 15 days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in subparagraph
(1) or (2) above.

(c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation
(FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order
limitations in paragraph (b) above.

(d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) above, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b),
unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within 5 calendar days after issuance, with written notice stating the
Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons.  Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the
supplies or services from another source.

(End of clause)



52.216-22     Indefinite Quantity.  (OCT 1995)

(a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule.  The
quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract.

(b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause.  The Contractor shall
furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated
in the Schedule as the "maximum".  The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the
"minimum".

(c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that
may be issued.  The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations.

(d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor
within the time specified in the order.  The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that
order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be
required to make any deliveries under this contract after March 2019.

(End of clause)



52.217-8     OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor.  The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months.  The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within 30 days.

(End of clause)



52.217-9     OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000)

(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 30 days; provided that the Government gives
the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 60 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does
not commit the Government to an extension.

(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.

(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 72 months.
 (End of clause)



52.219-9      SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN (JULY 2013)

(a) This clause does not apply to small business concerns.

(b) Definitions. As used in this clause--

“Alaska Native Corporation (ANC)” means any Regional Corporation, Village Corporation, Urban Corporation, or Group Corporation organized under
the laws of the State of Alaska in accordance with the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act, as amended (43 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.) and which is
considered a minority and economically disadvantaged concern under the criteria at 43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(1). This definition also includes ANC
direct and indirect subsidiary corporations, joint ventures, and partnerships that meet the requirements of 43 U.S.C. 1626(e)(2).

“Commercial item” means a product or service that satisfies the definition of commercial item in section 2.101 of the Federal Acquisition
Regulation.

“Commercial plan” means a subcontracting plan (including goals) that covers the offeror’s fiscal year and that applies to the entire production
of commercial items sold by either the entire company or a portion thereof (e.g., division, plant, or product line).

“Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS)” means the Governmentwide, electronic, web-based system for small business subcontracting
program reporting. The eSRS is located at http://www.esrs.gov.

“Indian tribe” means any Indian tribe, band, group, pueblo, or community, including native villages and native groups (including corporations
organized by Kenai, Juneau, Sitka, and Kodiak) as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.A. 1601 et seq.), that is
recognized by the Federal Government as eligible for services from the Bureau of Indian Affairs in accordance with 25 U.S.C. 1452(c). This
definition also includes Indian-owned economic enterprises that meet the requirements of 25 U.S.C. 1452(e).

“Individual contract plan” means a subcontracting plan that covers the entire contract period (including option periods), applies to a specific
contract, and has goals that are based on the offeror’s planned subcontracting in support of the specific contract except that indirect costs
incurred for common or joint purposes may be allocated on a prorated basis to the contract.

“Master plan” means a subcontracting plan that contains all the required elements of an individual contract plan, except goals, and may be
incorporated into individual contract plans, provided the master plan has been approved.

“Subcontract” means any agreement (other than one involving an employer-employee relationship) entered into by a Federal Government prime
Contractor or subcontractor calling for supplies or services required for performance of the contract or subcontract.

(c) The offeror, upon request by the Contracting Officer, shall submit and negotiate a subcontracting plan, where applicable, that separately
addresses subcontracting with small business concerns, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone
small business concerns, small disadvantaged business, and with women-owned small business concerns. If the offeror is submitting an individual
contract plan, the plan must separately address subcontracting with small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns with a separate part for the basic
contract and separate parts for each option (if any). The plan shall be included in and made a part of the resultant contract. The
subcontracting plan shall be negotiated within the time specified by the Contracting Officer. Failure to submit and negotiate the subcontracting
plan shall make the offeror ineligible for award of a contract.

(d) The offeror’s subcontracting plan shall include the following:

(1) Goals, expressed in terms of percentages of total planned subcontracting dollars, for the use of small business, veteran-owned small
business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business
concerns as subcontractors. The offeror shall include all subcontracts that contribute to contract performance, and may include a proportionate
share of products and services that are normally allocated as indirect costs. In accordance with 43 U.S.C. 1626:

(i) Subcontracts awarded to an ANC or Indian tribe shall be counted towards the subcontracting goals for small business and small disadvantaged
business (SDB) concerns, regardless of the size or Small Business Administration certification status of the ANC or Indian tribe.

(ii) Where one or more subcontractors are in the subcontract tier between the prime contractor and the ANC or Indian tribe, the ANC or Indian
tribe shall designate the appropriate contractor(s) to count the subcontract towards its small business and small disadvantaged business
subcontracting goals.

(A) In most cases, the appropriate Contractor is the Contractor that awarded the subcontract to the ANC or Indian tribe.

(B) If the ANC or Indian tribe designates more than one Contractor to count the subcontract toward its goals, the ANC or Indian tribe shall
designate only a portion of the total subcontract award to each Contractor. The sum of the amounts designated to various Contractors cannot
exceed the total value of the subcontract.

(C) The ANC or Indian tribe shall give a copy of the written designation to the Contracting Officer, the prime Contractor, and the
subcontractors in between the prime Contractor and the ANC or Indian tribe within 30 days of the date of the subcontract award.

(D) If the Contracting Officer does not receive a copy of the ANC's or the Indian tribe's written designation within 30 days of the subcontract
award, the Contractor that awarded the subcontract to the ANC or Indian tribe will be considered the designated Contractor.

(2) A statement of --

(i) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted for an individual contract plan; or the offeror’s total projected sales, expressed in dollars, and
the total value of projected subcontracts to support the sales for a commercial plan;

(ii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to small business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes);

(iii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to veteran-owned small business concerns;

(iv) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to service-disabled veteran-owned small business;

(v) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to HUBZone small business concerns;

(vi) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes); and

(vii) Total dollars planned to be subcontracted to women-owned small business concerns.

(3) A description of the principal types of supplies and services to be subcontracted, and an identification of the types planned for
subcontracting to --

(i) Small business concerns,

(ii) Veteran-owned small business concerns;

(iii) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns;

(iv) HUBZone small business concerns;

(v) Small disadvantaged business concerns, and

(vi) Women-owned small business concerns.

(4) A description of the method used to develop the subcontracting goals in paragraph (d)(1) of this clause.

(5) A description of the method used to identify potential sources for solicitation purposes (e.g., existing company source lists, the System
for Award Management (SAM), veterans service organizations, the National Minority Purchasing Council Vendor Information Service, the Research
and Information Division of the Minority Business Development Agency in the Department of Commerce, or small, HUBZone, small disadvantaged, and
women-owned small business trade associations). A firm may rely on the information contained in SAM as an accurate representation of a concern's
size and ownership characteristics for the purposes of maintaining a small, veteran-owned small, service-disabled veteran-owned small, HUBZone
small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business source list. Use of SAM as its source list does not relieve a firm of its
responsibilities (e.g., outreach, assistance, counseling, or publicizing subcontracting opportunities) in this clause.

(6) A statement as to whether or not the offeror included indirect costs in establishing subcontracting goals, and a description of the method
used to determine the proportionate share of indirect costs to be incurred with --

(i) Small business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes);

(ii) Veteran-owned small business concerns;

(iii) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns;

(iv) HUBZone small business concerns;

(v) Small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANC and Indian tribes); and

(vi) Women-owned small business concerns.

(7) The name of the individual employed by the offeror who will administer the offeror’s subcontracting program, and a description of the duties
of the individual.

(8) A description of the efforts the offeror will make to assure that small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-
owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns have an equitable
opportunity to compete for subcontracts.

(9) Assurances that the offeror will include the clause of this contract entitled “Utilization of Small Business Concerns” in all subcontracts
that offer further subcontracting opportunities, and that the offeror will require all subcontractors (except small business concerns) that
receive subcontracts in excess of $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility with further subcontracting possibilities) to
adopt a plan similar to the plan that complies with the requirements of this clause.

(10) Assurances that the offeror will --

(i) Cooperate in any studies or surveys as may be required;

(ii) Submit periodic reports so that the Government can determine the extent of compliance by the offeror with the subcontracting plan;

(iii) Submit the Individual Subcontract Report (ISR) and/or the Summary Subcontract Report (SSR), in accordance with paragraph (l) of this
clause using the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System (eSRS) at http://www.esrs.gov. The reports shall provide information on subcontract
awards to small business concerns (including ANCs and Indian tribes that are not small businesses), veteran-owned small business concerns,
service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns, HUBZone small business concerns, small disadvantaged business concerns (including ANCs
and Indian tribes that have not been certified by the Small Business Administration as small disadvantaged businesses), women-owned small
business concerns, and Historically Black Colleges and Universities and Minority Institutions. Reporting shall be in accordance with this
clause, or as provided in agency regulations;

(iv) Ensure that its subcontractors with subcontracting plans agree to submit the ISR and/or the SSR using eSRS;

(v) Provide its prime contract number, its DUNS number, and the e-mail address of the offeror's official responsible for acknowledging receipt
of or rejecting the ISRs, to all first-tier subcontractors with subcontracting plans so they can enter this information into the eSRS when
submitting their ISRs; and

(vi) Require that each subcontractor with a subcontracting plan provide the prime contract number, its own DUNS number, and the e-mail address
of the subcontractor's official responsible for acknowledging receipt of or rejecting the ISRs, to its subcontractors with subcontracting plans.

(11) A description of the types of records that will be maintained concerning procedures that have been adopted to comply with the requirements
and goals in the plan, including establishing source lists; and a description of the offeror’s efforts to locate small business, veteran-owned
small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small
business concerns and award subcontracts to them. The records shall include at least the following (on a plant-wide or company-wide basis,
unless otherwise indicated):

(i) Source lists (e.g., SAM), guides, and other data that identify small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned
small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns.

(ii) Organizations contacted in an attempt to locate sources that are small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-
owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, or women-owned small business concerns.

(iii) Records on each subcontract solicitation resulting in an award of more than $150,000, indicating --

(A) Whether small business concerns were solicited and if not, why not;

(B) Whether veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;

(C) Whether service-disabled veteran-owned small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;

(D) Whether HUBZone small business concerns were solicited and, if not, why not;

(E) Whether small disadvantaged business concerns were solicited and if not, why not;

(F) Whether women-owned small business concerns were solicited and if not, why not; and

(G) If applicable, the reason award was not made to a small business concern.

(iv) Records of any outreach efforts to contact --

(A) Trade associations;

(B) Business development organizations;

(C) Conferences and trade fairs to locate small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, and women-owned small business sources; and

(D) Veterans service organizaions.

(v) Records of internal guidance and encouragement provided to buyers through --

(A) Workshops, seminars, training, etc., and

(B) Monitoring performance to evaluate compliance with the program’s requirements.

(vi) On a contract-by-contract basis, records to support award data submitted by the offeror to the Government, including the name, address, and
business size of each subcontractor. Contractors having commercial plans need not comply with this requirement.

(e) In order to effectively implement this plan to the extent consistent with efficient contract performance, the Contractor shall perform the
following functions:

(1) Assist small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small
disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns by arranging solicitations, time for the preparation of bids, quantities,
specifications, and delivery schedules so as to facilitate the participation by such concerns. Where the Contractor’s lists of potential small
business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and
women-owned small business subcontractors are excessively long, reasonable effort shall be made to give all such small business concerns an
opportunity to compete over a period of time.

(2) Provide adequate and timely consideration of the potentialities of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled veteran-
owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business concerns in all “make-or-buy”
decisions.

(3) Counsel and discuss subcontracting opportunities with representatives of small business, veteran-owned small business, service-disabled
veteran-owned small business, HUBZone small business, small disadvantaged business, and women-owned small business firms.

(4) Confirm that a subcontractor representing itself as a HUBZone small business concern is identified as a certified HUBZone small business
concern by accessing the SAM database or by contacting SBA.

(5) Provide notice to subcontractors concerning penalties and remedies for misrepresentations of business status as small, veteran-owned small
business, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged or women-owned small business for the purpose of obtaining a subcontract that is to be included as
part or all of a goal contained in the Contractor’s subcontracting plan.

(6) For all competitive subcontracts over the simplified acquisition threshold in which a small business concern received a small business
preference, upon determination of the successful subcontract offeror, the Contractor must inform each unsuccessful small business subcontract
offeror in writing of the name and location of the apparent successful offeror prior to award of the contract.

(f) A master plan on a plant or division-wide basis that contains all the elements required by paragraph (d) of this clause, except goals, may
be incorporated by reference as a part of the subcontracting plan required of the offeror by this clause; provided --

(1) The master plan has been approved;

(2) The offeror ensures that the master plan is updated as necessary and provides copies of the approved master plan, including evidence of its
approval, to the Contracting Officer; and

(3) Goals and any deviations from the master plan deemed necessary by the Contracting Officer to satisfy the requirements of this contract are
set forth in the individual subcontracting plan.

(g) A commercial plan is the preferred type of subcontracting plan for contractors furnishing commercial items. The commercial plan shall relate
to the offeror's planned subcontracting generally, for both commercial and Government business, rather than solely to the Government contract.
Once the Contractor's commercial plan has been approved, the Government will not require another subcontracting plan from the same Contractor
while the plan remains in effect, as long as the product or service being provided by the Contractor continues to meet the definition of a
commercial item. A Contractor with a commercial plan shall comply with the reporting requirements stated in paragraph (d)(10) of this clause by
submitting one SSR in eSRS for all contracts covered by its commercial plan. This report shall be acknowledged or rejected in eSRS by the
Contracting Officer who approved the plan. This report shall be submitted within 30 days after the end of the Government's fiscal year.

(h) Prior compliance of the offeror with other such subcontracting plans under previous contracts will be considered by the Contracting Officer
in determining the responsibility of the offeror for award of the contract.

(i) A contract may have no more than one plan. When a modification meets the criteria in 19.702 for a plan, or an option is exercised, the goals
associated with the modification or option shall be added to those in the existing subcontract plan.

(j) Subcontracting plans are not required from subcontractors when the prime contract contains the clause at 52.212-5, Contract Terms and
Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items, or when the subcontractor provides a commercial item subject to
the clause at 52.244-6, Subcontracts for Commercial Items, under a prime contract.

(k) The failure of the Contractor or subcontractor to comply in good faith with --

(1) The clause of this contract entitled “Utilization Of Small Business Concerns;” or

(2) An approved plan required by this clause, shall be a material breach of the contract.

(l) The Contractor shall submit ISRs and SSRs using the web-based eSRS at http://www.esrs.gov. Purchases from a corporation, company, or
subdivision that is an affiliate of the prime Contractor or subcontractor are not included in these reports. Subcontract award data reported by
prime Contractors and subcontractors shall be limited to awards made to their immediate next-tier subcontractors. Credit cannot be taken for
awards made to lower tier subcontractors, unless the Contractor or subcontractor has been designated to receive a small business or small
disadvantaged business credit from an ANC or Indian tribe. Only subcontracts involving performance in the United States or its outlying areas
should be included in these reports with the exception of subcontracts under a contract awarded by the State Department or any other agency that
has statutory or regulatory authority to require subcontracting plans for subcontracts performed outside the United States and its outlying
areas.

(1) ISR. This report is not required for commercial plans. The report is required for each contract containing an individual subcontract plan.

(i) The report shall be submitted semi-annually during contract performance for the periods ending March 31 and September 30. A report is also
required for each contract within 30 days of contract completion. Reports are due 30 days after the close of each reporting period, unless
otherwise directed by the Contracting Officer. Reports are required when due, regardless of whether there has been any subcontracting activity
since the inception of the contract or the previous reporting period.

(ii) When a subcontracting plan contains separate goals for the basic contract and each option, as prescribed by FAR 19.704(c), the dollar goal
inserted on this report shall be the sum of the base period through the current option; for example, for a report submitted after the second
option is exercised, the dollar goal would be the sum of the goals for the basic contract, the first option, and the second option.

(iii) The authority to acknowledge receipt or reject the ISR resides--

(A) In the case of the prime Contractor, with the Contracting Officer; and

(B) In the case of a subcontract with a subcontracting plan, with the entity that awarded the subcontract.

(2) SSR.

(i) Reports submitted under individual contract plans--

(A) This report encompasses all subcontracting under prime contracts and subcontracts with the awarding agency, regardless of the dollar value
of the subcontracts.

(B) The report may be submitted on a corporate, company or subdivision (e.g. plant or division operating as a separate profit center) basis,
unless otherwise directed by the agency.

(C) If a prime Contractor and/or subcontractor is performing work for more than one executive agency, a separate report shall be submitted to
each executive agency covering only that agency's contracts, provided at least one of that agency's contracts is over $650,000 (over $1.5
million for construction of a public facility) and contains a subcontracting plan. For DoD, a consolidated report shall be submitted for all
contracts awarded by military departments/agencies and/or subcontracts awarded by DoD prime Contractors. However, for construction and related
maintenance and repair, a separate report shall be submitted for each DoD component.

(D) For DoD and NASA, the report shall be submitted semi-annually for the six months ending March 31 and the twelve months ending September 30.
For civilian agencies, except NASA, it shall be submitted annually for the twelve month period ending September 30. Reports are due 30 days
after the close of each reporting period.

(E) Subcontract awards that are related to work for more than one executive agency shall be appropriately allocated.

(F) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs in eSRS, including SSRs submitted by subcontractors with subcontracting plans, resides with the
Government agency awarding the prime contracts unless stated otherwise in the contract.

(ii) Reports submitted under a commercial plan--

(A) The report shall include all subcontract awards under the commercial plan in effect during the Government's fiscal year.

(B) The report shall be submitted annually, within thirty days after the end of the Government's fiscal year.

(C) If a Contractor has a commercial plan and is performing work for more than one executive agency, the Contractor shall specify the percentage
of dollars attributable to each agency from which contracts for commercial items were received.

(D) The authority to acknowledge or reject SSRs for commercial plans resides with the Contracting Officer who approved the commercial plan.

(iii) All reports submitted at the close of each fiscal year (both individual and commercial plans) shall include a Year-End Supplementary
Report for Small Disadvantaged Businesses. The report shall include subcontract awards, in whole dollars, to small disadvantaged business
concerns by North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Subsector. If the data are not available when the year-end SSR is
submitted, the prime Contractor and/or subcontractor shall submit the Year-End Supplementary Report for Small Disadvantaged Businesses within 90
days of submitting the year-end SSR. For a commercial plan, the Contractor may obtain from each of its subcontractors a predominant NAICS
Industry Subsector and report all awards to that subcontractor under its predominant NAICS Industry Subsector.

(End of clause)



52.222-48    EXEMPTION FROM APPLICATION OF SERVICE CONTRACT ACT TO CONTRACTS FOR MAINTENANCE, CALIBRATION, OR REPAIR OF CERTAIN EQUIPMENT
CERTIFICATION (FEB 2009)

(a) The offeror shall check the following certification:

CERTIFICATION

The offeror (  ) does (  ) does not certify that--

(1) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Government purposes, and are sold or traded by
the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontractor) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal
business operations;

(2) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices for the maintenance, calibration,
or repair of equipment.

(i) An “established catalog price” is a price included in a catalog, price list, schedule, or other form that is regularly maintained by the
manufacturer or the offeror, is either published or otherwise available for inspection by customers, and states prices at which sales currently,
or were last, made to a significant number of buyers constituting the general public.

(ii) An “established market price” is a current price, established in the usual course of trade between buyers and sellers free to bargain,
which can be substantiated from sources independent of the manufacturer or offeror; and

(3) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract are the same as that used for
these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.

(b) Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its
subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services. If the offeror certifies to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this provision, and the
Contracting Officer determines in accordance with FAR 22.1003-4(c)(3) that the Service Contract Act--

(1) Will not apply to this offeror, then the Service Contract Act of 1965 clause in this solicitation will not be included in any resultant
contract to this offeror; or

(2) Will apply to this offeror, then the clause at 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for
Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements, in this solicitation will not be included in any resultant contract
awarded to this offeror, and the offeror may be provided an opportunity to submit a new offer on that basis.

(c) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (a) of this provision--

(1) The clause in this solicitation at 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance,
Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements, will not be included in any resultant contract awarded to this offeror; and

(2) The offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible, if the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage
determination to the solicitation.

(d) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror, if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (a) of this
provision or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (c) of this provision.

(End of provision)





52.232-9001    Funds Not Presently Available

As prescribed in 32.703-90, use the following solicitation provision:
FUNDS NOT PRESENTLY AVAILABLE (juL 2012)
“Notice to Offerors:  Funds are not presently available for this effort.  No award will be made under this solicitation until funds are
available.  The Government reserves the right to cancel this solicitation, either before or after the closing date.  In the event the Government
cancels this solicitation, the Government has no obligation to reimburse an offeror for any costs.”
                                                                (End of provision)




52.246-20     WARRANTY OF SERVICES (MAY 2001)

a) Definition.

"Acceptance," as used in this clause, means the act of an authorized representative of the Government by which the Government assumes for
itself, or as an agent of another, ownership of existing and identified supplies, or approves specific services, as partial or complete
performance of the contract.

(b) Notwithstanding inspection and acceptance by the Government or any provision concerning the conclusiveness thereof, the Contractor warrants
that all services performed under this contract will, at the time of acceptance, be free from defects in workmanship and conform to the
requirements of this contract.  The Contracting Officer shall give written notice of any defect or nonconformance to the Contractor within 30
days from the date of acceptance by the Government. This notice shall state either (1) that the Contractor shall correct or reperform any
defective or nonconforming services, or (2) that the Government does not require correction or reperformance.

(c) If the Contractor is required to correct or reperform, it shall be at no cost to the Government, and any services corrected or reperformed
by the Contractor shall be subject to this clause to the same extent as work initially performed.  If the Contractor fails or refuses to correct
or reperform, the Contracting Officer may, by contract or otherwise, correct or replace with similar services and charge to the Contractor the
cost occasioned to the Government thereby, or make an equitable adjustment in the contract price.

(d) If the Government does not require correction or reperformance, the Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the contract
price.

(End of clause)



52.252-2      CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
addresses:

http://farsite.hill.af.mil

http://www.acquisition.gov/far

(End of clause)



52.252-6     AUTHORIZED DEVIATIONS IN CLAUSES (APR 1984)

(a) The use in this solicitation or contract of any Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) clause with an authorized deviation is
indicated by the addition of "(DEVIATION)" after the date of the clause.

(b) The use in this solicitation or contract of any DFARS (48 CFR Chap 2) clause with an authorized deviation is indicated by the addition of
"(DEVIATION)" after the name of the regulation.

(End of clause)



252.211-7003   ITEM IDENTIFICATION AND VALUATION (JUN 2013)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause'

Automatic identification device means a device, such as a reader or interrogator, used to retrieve data encoded on machine-readable media.

Concatenated unique item identifier means--

(1) For items that are serialized within the enterprise identifier, the linking together of the unique identifier data elements in order of the
issuing agency code, enterprise identifier, and unique serial number within the enterprise identifier; or

(2) For items that are serialized within the original part, lot, or batch number, the linking together of the unique identifier data elements in
order of the issuing agency code; enterprise identifier; original part, lot, or batch number; and serial number within the original part, lot,
or batch number.

Data qualifier means a specified character (or string of characters) that immediately precedes a data field that defines the general category or
intended use of the data that follows.

DoD recognized unique identification equivalent means a unique identification method that is in commercial use and has been recognized by DoD.
All DoD recognized unique identification equivalents are listed at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/iuid_equivalents.html.

DoD unique item identification means a system of marking items delivered to DoD with unique item identifiers that have machine-readable data
elements to distinguish an item from all other like and unlike items.  For items that are serialized within the enterprise identifier, the
unique item identifier shall include the data elements of the enterprise identifier and a unique serial number.  For items that are serialized
within the part, lot, or batch number within the enterprise identifier, the unique item identifier shall include the data elements of the
enterprise identifier; the original part, lot, or batch number; and the serial number.

Enterprise means the entity (e.g., a manufacturer or vendor) responsible for assigning unique item identifiers to items.

Enterprise identifier means a code that is uniquely assigned to an enterprise by an issuing agency.

Government's unit acquisition cost means--

(1) For fixed-price type line, subline, or exhibit line items, the unit price identified in the contract at the time of delivery;

(2) For cost-type or undefinitized line, subline, or exhibit line items, the Contractor's estimated fully burdened unit cost to the Government
at the time of delivery; and

(3) For items produced under a time-and-materials contract, the Contractor's estimated fully burdened unit cost to the Government at the time of
delivery.

Issuing agency means an organization responsible for assigning a globally unique identifier to an enterprise (e.g.,
Dun & Bradstreet's Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number, GS1 Company Prefix, Allied Committee 135 NATO Commercial and Government Entity
(NCAGE)/Commercial and Government Entity (CAGE) Code, or the Coded Representation of the North American Telecommunications Industry
Manufacturers, Suppliers, and Related Service Companies (ATIS-0322000) Number), European Health Industry Business Communication Council (EHIBCC)
and Health Industry Business Communication Council (HIBCC)), as indicated in the Register of Issuing Agency Codes for ISO/IEC 15459, located at
http://www.nen.nl/web/Normen-ontwikkelen/ISOIEC-15459-Issuing-Agency-Codes.htm.

Issuing agency code means a code that designates the registration (or controlling) authority for the enterprise identifier.

Item means a single hardware article or a single unit formed by a grouping of subassemblies, components, or constituent parts.

Lot or batch number means an identifying number assigned by the enterprise to a designated group of items, usually referred to as either a lot
or a batch, all of which were manufactured under identical conditions.

Machine-readable means an automatic identification technology media, such as bar codes, contact memory buttons, radio frequency identification,
or optical memory cards.

Original part number means a combination of numbers or letters assigned by the enterprise at item creation to a class of items with the same
form, fit, function, and interface.

Parent item means the item assembly, intermediate component, or subassembly that has an embedded item with a unique item identifier or DoD
recognized unique identification equivalent.

Serial number within the enterprise identifier means a combination of numbers, letters, or symbols assigned by the enterprise to an item that
provides for the differentiation of that item from any other like and unlike item and is never used again within the enterprise.

Serial number within the part, lot, or batch number means a combination of numbers or letters assigned by the enterprise to an item that
provides for the differentiation of that item from any other like item within a part, lot, or batch number assignment.

Serialization within the enterprise identifier means each item produced is assigned a serial number that is unique among all the tangible items
produced by the enterprise and is never used again. The enterprise is responsible for ensuring unique serialization within the enterprise
identifier.

Serialization within the part, lot, or batch number means each item of a particular part, lot, or batch number is assigned a unique serial
number within that part, lot, or batch number assignment. The enterprise is responsible for ensuring unique serialization within the part, lot,
or batch number within the enterprise identifier.

Unique item identifier means a set of data elements marked on items that is globally unique and unambiguous. The term includes a concatenated
unique item identifier or a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent.

Unique item identifier type means a designator to indicate which method of uniquely identifying a part has been used. The current list of
accepted unique item identifier types is maintained at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/uii_types.html.

(b) The Contractor shall deliver all items under a contract line, subline, or exhibit line item.

(c) Unique item identifier.

(1) The Contractor shall provide a unique item identifier for the following:

(i) All delivered items for which the Government's unit acquisition cost is $5,000 or more.

(ii) The following items for which the Government's unit acquisition cost is less than $5,000:

------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contract line, subline, or  exhibit line
                 item No.                         Item description
------------------------------------------------------------------------
     

(iii) Subassemblies, components, and parts embedded within delivered items as specified in Attachment Number ----.

(2) The unique item identifier and the component data elements of the DoD unique item identification shall not change over the life of the item.

(3) Data syntax and semantics of unique item identifiers. The Contractor shall ensure that--

(i) The encoded data elements (except issuing agency code) of the unique item identifier are marked on the item using one of the following three
types of data qualifiers, as determined by the Contractor:

(A) Application Identifiers (AIs) (Format Indicator 05 of ISO/IEC International Standard 15434), in accordance with ISO/IEC International
Standard 15418, Information Technology--EAN/UCC Application Identifiers and Fact Data Identifiers and Maintenance and ANSI MH 10.8.2 Data
Identifier and Application Identifier Standard.

(B) Data Identifiers (DIs) (Format Indicator 06 of ISO/IEC International Standard 15434), in accordance with ISO/IEC International Standard
15418, Information Technology--EAN/UCC Application Identifiers and Fact Data Identifiers and Maintenance and ANSI MH 10.8.2 Data Identifier and
Application Identifier Standard.

(C) Text Element Identifiers (TEIs) (Format Indicator 12 of ISO/IEC International Standard 15434), in accordance with the Air Transport
Association Common Support Data Dictionary; and

(ii) The encoded data elements of the unique item identifier conform to the transfer structure, syntax, and coding of messages and data formats
specified for Format Indicators 05, 06, and 12 in ISO/IEC International Standard 15434, Information Technology--Transfer Syntax for High
Capacity Automatic Data Capture Media.

(4) Unique item identifier.

(i) The Contractor shall--

(A) Determine whether to--

(1) Serialize within the enterprise identifier;

(2) Serialize within the part, lot, or batch number; or

(3) Use a DoD recognized unique identification equivalent; and

(B) Place the data elements of the unique item identifier (enterprise identifier; serial number; DoD recognized unique identification
equivalent; and for serialization within the part, lot, or batch number only: original part, lot, or batch number) on items requiring marking by
paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, based on the criteria provided in the version of MIL-STD-130, Identification Marking of U.S. Military Property,
cited in the contract Schedule.

(ii) The issuing agency code--

(A) Shall not be placed on the item; and

(B) Shall be derived from the data qualifier for the enterprise identifier.

(d) For each item that requires unique item identification under paragraph (c)(1)(i) or (ii) of this clause, in addition to the information
provided as part of the Material Inspection and Receiving Report specified elsewhere in this contract, the Contractor shall report at the time
of delivery, either as part of, or associated with, the Material Inspection and Receiving Report, the following information:

(1) Unique item identifier.

(2) Unique item identifier type.

(3) Issuing agency code (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).

(4) Enterprise identifier (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).

(5) Original part number (if there is serialization within the original part number).

(6) Lot or batch number (if there is serialization within the lot or batch number).

(7) Current part number (optional and only if not the same as the original part number).

(8) Current part number effective date (optional and only if current part number is used).

(9) Serial number (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).

(10) Government's unit acquisition cost.

(11) Unit of measure.

(e) For embedded subassemblies, components, and parts that require DoD unique item identification under paragraph (c)(1)(iii) of this clause,
the Contractor shall report as part of, or associated with, the Material Inspection and Receiving Report specified elsewhere in this contract,
the following information:

(1) Unique item identifier of the parent item under paragraph (c)(1) of this clause that contains the embedded subassembly, component, or part.

(2) Unique item identifier of the embedded subassembly, component, or part.

(3) Unique item identifier type.**

(4) Issuing agency code (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).**

(5) Enterprise identifier (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).**

(6) Original part number (if there is serialization within the original part number).**

(7) Lot or batch number (if there is serialization within the lot or batch number).**

(8) Current part number (optional and only if not the same as the original part number).**

(9) Current part number effective date (optional and only if current part number is used).**

(10) Serial number (if concatenated unique item identifier is used).**

(11) Description.

** Once per item.

(f) The Contractor shall submit the information required by paragraphs (d) and (e) of this clause in accordance with the data submission
procedures at http://www.acq.osd.mil/dpap/pdi/uid/data_
submission_information.html.

(g) Subcontracts. If the Contractor acquires by subcontract, any item(s) for which unique item identification is required in accordance with
paragraph (c)(1) of this clause, the Contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph (g), in the applicable subcontract(s),
including subcontracts for commercial items.

(End of clause)




252.211-7008 USE OF GOVERNMENT-ASSIGNED SERIAL NUMBERS (SEP 2010)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--

Government-assigned serial number means a combination of letters or numerals in a fixed human-readable information format (text) conveying
information about a major end item, which is provided to a contractor by the requiring activity with accompanying technical data instructions
for marking the Government-assigned serial number on major end items to be delivered to the Government.

Major end item means a final combination of component parts and/or materials which is ready for its intended use and of such importance to
operational readiness that review and control of inventory management functions (procurement, distribution, maintenance, disposal, and asset
reporting) is required at all levels of life cycle management. Major end items include aircraft; ships; boats; motorized wheeled, tracked, and
towed vehicles for use on highway or rough terrain; weapon and missile end items; ammunition; and sets, assemblies, or end items having a major
end item as a component.

Unique item identifier (UII) means a set of data elements permanently marked on an item that is globally unique and unambiguous and never
changes in order to provide traceability of the item throughout its total life cycle. The term includes a concatenated UII or a DoD-recognized
unique identification equivalent.

(b) The Contractor shall mark the Government-assigned serial numbers on those major end items as specified by line item in the Schedule, in
accordance with the technical instructions for the placement and method of application identified in the terms and conditions of the contract.

(c) The Contractor shall register the Government-assigned serial number along with the major end item's UII at the time of delivery in
accordance with the provisions of the clause at DFARS 252.211-7003(d).

(d) The Contractor shall establish the UII for major end items for use throughout the life of the major end item. The Contractor may elect, but
is not required, to use the Government-assigned serial number to construct the UII.


(End of clause)




252.232-7007      LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT'S OBLIGATION (MAY 2006)

(a) Contract line item(s) X002 through X004 may be incrementally funded. For these item(s), the details on funding shall be set forth at the
task order level.  An allotment schedule shall be set forth in paragraph (j) of this clause, when required.  In addition, the standard language
of this subsection shall be set forth in each task order, when the clause at DFARS 252.232-7007 is included.

(b)  For items(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor agrees to perform up to the point at which the total amount payable
by the Government, including reimbursement in the event of termination of those item(s) for the Government's convenience, approximates the total
amount currently allotted to the contract.  The Contractor is not authorized to continue work on those item(s) beyond that point. The Government
will not be obligated in any event to reimburse the Contractor in excess of the amount allotted to the contract for those item(s) regardless of
anything to the contrary in the clause entitled "TERMINATION FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT."  As used in this clause, the total amount
payable by the Government in the event of termination of applicable contract line item(s) for convenience includes costs, profit and estimated
termination settlement costs for those item(s).

(c)  Notwithstanding the dates specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, the Contractor will notify the Contracting
Officer in writing at least  ninety days prior to the date when, in the Contractor's best judgment, the work will reach the point at which the
total amount payable by the Government, including any cost for termination for convenience, will approximate 85 percent of the total amount then
allotted to the contract for performance of the applicable item(s).  The notification will state (1) the estimated date when that point will be
reached and (2) an estimate of additional funding, if any, needed to continue performance of applicable line items up to the next scheduled date
for allotment of funds identified in paragraph (j) of this clause, or to a mutually agreed upon substitute date.  The notification will also
advise the Contracting Officer of the estimated amount of additional funds that will be required for the timely performance of the item(s)
funded pursuant to this clause, for subsequent period as may be specified in the allotment schedule in paragraph (j) of this clause, or
otherwise agreed to by the parties.  If after such notification additional funds are not allotted by the date identified in the Contractor's
notification, or by an agreed substitute date, the Contracting Officer will terminate any item(s) for which additional funds have not been
allotted, pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "TERMINATION FOR THE CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT".

(d)  When additional funds are allotted for continued performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the
parties will agree as to the period of contract performance which will be covered by the funds.  The provisions of paragraph (b) through (d) of
this clause will apply in like manner to the additional allotted funds and agreed substitute date, and the contract will be modified
accordingly.

(e)  If, solely by reason of failure of the Government to allot additional funds, by the dates indicated below, in amounts sufficient for timely
performance of the contract line item(s) identified in paragraph (a) of this clause, the Contractor incurs additional costs or is delayed in the
performance of the work under this contract and if additional funds are allotted, an equitable adjustment will be made in the price or prices
(including appropriate target, billing, and ceiling prices where applicable) of the item(s), or in the time of delivery, or both.  Failure to
agree to any such equitable adjustment hereunder will be a dispute concerning a question of fact within the meaning of the clause entitled
"disputes."

(f)  The Government may at any time prior to termination allot additional funds for the performance of the contract line item(s) identified in
paragraph (a) of this clause.

(g)  The termination provisions of this clause do not limit the rights of the Government under the clause entitled "DEFAULT."  The provisions of
this clause are limited to work and allotment of funds for the contract line item(s) set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause.  This clause no
longer applies once the contract if fully funded except with regard to the rights or obligations of the parties concerning equitable adjustments
negotiated under paragraphs (d) or (e) of this clause.

(h)  Nothing in this clause affects the right of the Government to this contract pursuant to the clause of this contract entitled "TERMINATION
FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT."

(i) Nothing in this clause shall be construed as authorization of voluntary services whose acceptance is otherwise prohibited under 31 U.S.C.
1342.

(j) The parties contemplate that the Government will allot funds to this contract in accordance with the following schedule:

On execution of this contract the funding will be applied at the task order level.

(End of Clause)
Section J - List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments

LIST OF ATTACHMENTS
Atch J-1         Performance Work Statement (PWS)
Atch J-2         RFP Q&A Format
Atch J-3         Evaluation Table
Atch J-4         Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)
Atch J-5         CLIN Structure
Atch J-6    Cost Model
Atch J-7         DD254 – Contract Security Classification Specifications

Section K - Representations, Certifications and Other Statements of Offerors

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.209-7                |Information Regarding Responsibility Matters                              |JUL 2013         |                       |
|252.209-7001            |Disclosure of Ownership or Control by the Government of a Terrorist       |JAN 2009         |                       |
|                        |Country                                                                   |                 |                       |
|252.225-7003            |Report of Intended Performance Outside the United States and              |OCT 2010         |                       |
|                        |Canada--Submission with Offer                                             |                 |                       |
|252.225-7031            |Secondary Arab Boycott Of Israel                                          |JUN 2005         |                       |
|252.225-7042            |Authorization to Perform                                                  |APR 2003         |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


52.212-3     OFFEROR REPRESENTATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS--COMMERCIAL ITEMS (NOV 2013)

An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications
electronically via http://www.acquisition.gov. If an offeror has not completed  the annual representations and certifications electronically at
the System for Award Management (SAM) website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision.

(a) Definitions. As used in this provision --

“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) Concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and
unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily
business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged
in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program.

"Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-

(1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer
himself voluntarily; or

(2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties.

Inverted domestic corporation, as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation
under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States,
but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the
criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation
as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874.

Manufactured end product means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 1000-9999, except--

(1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials;

(2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies;

(3) FSG 88, Live Animals;

(4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables;

(5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials;

(6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible;

(7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products;

(8) FSC 9610, Ores;

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and

(10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials.

Place of manufacture means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into
the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the
place of manufacture.

Restricted business operations means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-
related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007
(Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of
the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate--

(1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;

(2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are
expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization;

(3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;

(4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;

(5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or

(6) Have been voluntarily suspended.

Sensitive technology--

(1) Means hardware, software, telecommunications equipment, or any other technology that is to be used specifically--

(i) To restrict the free flow of unbiased information in Iran; or

(ii) To disrupt, monitor, or otherwise restrict speech of the people of Iran; and

(2) Does not include information or informational materials the export of which the President does not have the authority to regulate or
prohibit pursuant to section 203(b)(3) of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702(b)(3)).

Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern--

(1) Means a small business concern--

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less
than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-
disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38
U.S.C. 101(16).

"Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size
standards in this solicitation.

Subsidiary means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned--

(1) Directly by a parent corporation; or

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation.

Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern--

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.

"Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned
business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are
controlled by one or more women.

"Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern--

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is
owned by one or more women; or

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)”, means a small business concern
that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by,
one or more women who are citizens of the United States.

(b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not
automatically change the representations and certifications posted electronically on the SAM website.

(2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the SAM website accessed through
https://www.acquisition.gov. After reviewing the SAM database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the
representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial
Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the
business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this
offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ----------.

[Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this
solicitation only, if any.) These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current,
accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not
result in an update to the representations and certifications posted electronically on ORCA.]

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying
areas. Check all that apply.

(1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a small business concern.

(2) Veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ___   ) is, ( ___   ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern.

(3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business
concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it ( ___    ) is, (   ___  ) is not a service-
disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

(4) Small disadvantaged business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of
this provision.) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it ( ___   ) is, ( ___   )  is not a small disadvantaged
business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.

(5) Women-owned small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this
provision.) The offeror represents that it (  ) is, (  )  is not a women-owned small business concern.

Note to paragraphs (c)(8) and (9): Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified
acquisition threshold.

(6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in
paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

(i) It [ ___  ] is, [ ___   ] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB
Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have
been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [ ___  ] is, [ ___  ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph
(c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture. [The offeror
shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that are participating in the joint
venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy
of the WOSB representation.

(7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern
eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that--

(i) It [ ___  ] is, [ ___  ] is not an EDWOSB concern, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in
circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [ ___  ] is, [ ___  ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph
(c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names
of the EDWOSB concern and
other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall
submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.

(8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). (Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did
not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents that it ( ___   ) is, a women-
owned business concern.

(9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus
areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50
percent of the contract price:

_____________________________________________


(10) (Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged
Business Concerns or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror
desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.)

(i) General. The offeror represents that either--

(A) It ( ___   ) is, ( ___   ) is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified,
on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the SAM Dynamic Small Business Search database
maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its
certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon
whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2);
or

(B) It ( ___   ) has, ( ___   ) has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be
certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and
that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted.

(ii) Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its
offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i)
of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (The offeror shall enter
the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ____________.)

(11) HUBZone small business concern. (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this
provision.) The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that--

(i) It [ ___   ] is, [ ___   ] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified
HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal
office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and

(ii) It [ ___   ] is, [ ___   ] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in
paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The
offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: _______.] Each HUBZone
small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate
signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

(d) Certifications and representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246--

(1) Previous Contracts and Compliance. The offeror represents that--

(i) It ( ___   ) has, ( ___   ) has not, participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject either to the Equal Opportunity clause of
this solicitation, the and

(ii) It ( ___    ) has, ( ___   ) has not, filed all required compliance reports.

(2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that--

(i) It ( ___   ) has developed and has on file, ( ___   ) has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action
programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR Subparts 60-1 and 60-2), or

(ii) It ( ___   ) has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations
of the Secretary of Labor.

(e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed
$150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have
been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress,
an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant
contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to
this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the
name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.

(f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act --Supplies, is
included in this solicitation.)

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that
for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the
United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as
domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of
“domestic end product.” The terms “commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item,” “component,” “domestic end product,” “end product,”
“foreign end product,” and “United States” are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled “Buy American Act--Supplies.”
(2) Foreign End Products:

|Line Item No.      |Country of Origin        |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |

(List as necessary)

(3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.

(g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--
Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end
product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or
manufactured outside the United States. The terms ``Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end product,'' ``commercially available
off-the-shelf (COTS) item,'' ``component,'' ``domestic end product,'' ``end product,'' ``foreign end product,'' ``Free Trade Agreement
country,'' ``Free Trade Agreement country end product,'' ``Israeli end product,'' and ``United States'' are defined in the clause of this
solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act.''

(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani,
Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy American Act--Free
Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End
Products:

|Line Item No.      |Country of Origin        |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |

[List as necessary]

(iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as
defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other
foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product
that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of “domestic end product.”
Other Foreign End Products:
|Line Item No.      |Country of Origin        |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |


[List as necessary]

(iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25.
(2) Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I (Jan 2004). If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3
is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled
"Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act":
Canadian End Products:
|Line Item No.     |
| ___              |
| ___              |
| ___              |


[List as necessary]

(3) Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II (Jan 2004). If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3
is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

(g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this
solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Free Trade Agreements-Israeli Trade Act":
Canadian or Israeli End Products:
|Line Item No.      |Country of Origin        |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |


[List as necessary]

(4) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate III. If Alternate III to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is
included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision:

 (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Korean,
Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Buy
American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act'':

Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Korean, Moroccan, Omani, Panamanian, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End
Products:


|Line Item No.      |Country of Origin        |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |


[List as necessary]

(5) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.)

(i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(5)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated
country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled ``Trade Agreements''.

(ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products.

 Other End Products:


|Line Item No.      |Country of Origin        |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |
| ___               | ___                     |


                           [List as necessary]


(iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA,
the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated
country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made
or designated country end products unless the Contracting
Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements
of the solicitation.

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the
simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that --

(1) The offeror and/or any of its principals ( ___    ) are, ( ___   ) are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or
declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency,

(2) ( ___   ) Have, ( ___   ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered
against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state
or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or
commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating
Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and

(3) ( ___   ) Are, ( ___   ) are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission
of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and

(4) (   ___  ) Have, ( ___   ) have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an
amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.

(i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:

(A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined
if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally
determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted.

(B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment
was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded.

(ii) Examples.

(A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. Sec.  6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of
a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this
will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

(B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under
I.R.C. Sec.  6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal
to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the
underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is
not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised
all judicial appeal rights.

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. Sec.  6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full
compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.

(D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11
U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code).


(i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in
paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor
Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).]

(1) Listed end products.


|Listed End Product                         |Listed Countriesof Origin                                         |
| ___                                       | ___                                                              |
| ___                                       | ___                                                              |
| ___                                       | ___                                                              |

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then
the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.]

[  ___   ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or
manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product.

[  ___   ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in
the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or
indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those
efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor.
(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to
this solicitation is predominantly—

(1) ( ___   ) In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States
exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or

(2) ( ___   ) Outside the United States.


(j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For
statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to
this solicitation is predominantly--

(1) ( ___   ) In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States
exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or

(2) ( ___   ) Outside the United States.

(k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with
respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.)


[The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]

[  ___   ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror ( ___   ) does ( ___
) does not certify that—

(i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by
the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal
business operations;

(ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for
the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and

(iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that
used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers.

[  ___   ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror ( ___   ) does ( ___   ) does not certify that—

(i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or
subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations;


(ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-
4(d)(2)(iii));

(iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly
average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract
period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and
(iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for
these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers.


(3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies—

(i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service
Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and

(ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or
(k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause.

(l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this
information to the SAM database to be eligible for award.)

(1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection
requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued
by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).

(2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the
Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN
provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN.

(3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN).

( ___   ) TIN: --------------------.

( ___   ) TIN has been applied for.

( ___   ) TIN is not required because:

( ___   ) Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the
conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United
States;

( ___   ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government;

( ___    ) Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government.

(4) Type of organization.

( ___   ) Sole proprietorship;

(   ___  ) Partnership;

( ___   ) Corporate entity (not tax-exempt);

( ___    ) Corporate entity (tax-exempt);

( ___    ) Government entity (Federal, State, or local);

(   ___  ) Foreign government;

( ___   ) International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4;

( ___   ) Other ----------.

(5) Common parent.

(   ___  ) Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent;

( ___   ) Name and TIN of common parent:

Name - ___  .
TIN - ___  .

(m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted
business operations in Sudan.

(n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations—

(1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic
corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874.

(2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that--

(i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and

(ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.

(o) Prohibition on contracting with entities engaging in certain activities or transactions relating to Iran.

(1) The offeror shall email questions concerning sensitive technology to the Department of State at CISADA106@state.gov.

(2) Representation and certifications. Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(3) of this provision, by
submission of its offer, the offeror--

(i) Represents, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror does not export any sensitive technology to the government of Iran or
any entities or individuals owned or controlled by, or acting on behalf or at the direction of, the government of Iran;

(ii) Certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be
imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act; and

(iii) Certifies that the offeror, and any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not knowingly engage in any transaction that exceeds
$3,000 with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or any of its officials, agents, or affiliates, the property and interests in property of which are
blocked pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) (see OFAC's Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons List at
http://www.treasury.gov/ofac/downloads/t11sdn.pdf).

(3) The representation and certification requirements of paragraph (o)(2) of this provision do not apply if—

(i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and

(ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products.

(End of provision)





52.219-1      SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (APR 2012)

(a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is   541519.

(2) The small business size standard is  $25,000,000.00.

(3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but
which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.

(b) Representations.

(1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a small business concern.

(2) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents,
for general statistical purposes, that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.

(3) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents
as part of its offer that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a women-owned small business concern.

(4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned
small business concern in paragraph (b)(3) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that--

(i) It ( ) is, ( ) is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no
change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the
representation in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this provision is accurate for each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the
joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program and other small businesses that
are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program participating in the joint venture shall
submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation.

(5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned
small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that--

(i) It ( )  is, ( )  is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository,
and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and

(ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the
representation in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this provision is accurate for each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture. [The offeror
shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern and other small businesses that are participating in the joint venture: ----------.] Each
EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation.

(6) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents
as part of its offer that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a veteran-owned small business concern.

(7) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(6) of this provision.) The
offeror represents as part of its offer that it (  ) is, (  ) is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.

(8) (Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.) The offeror represents,
as part of its offer, that--

(i) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small
Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or
HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and

(ii) It [ ] is, [ ] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the
representation in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint
venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: --------
.] Each HUBZone small business concern
participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation.

(c) Definitions.  As used in this provision--

“Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern” means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and
unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the
United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small
business concern eligible under the WOSB Program.

Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern--

(1) Means a small business concern--

(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less
than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and

(ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-
disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.

(2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38
U.S.C. 101(16).

"Small business concern," means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size
standard in paragraph (a) of this provision.

Veteran-owned small business concern means a small business concern--

(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned
business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and

(2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.

"Women-owned small business concern," means a small business concern --

(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of
which is owned by one or more women; and

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.

“Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)”, means a small business concern
that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by,
one or more women who are citizens of the United States.

(d) Notice.

(1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this
solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished.

(2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm's status as a business concern that is small, HUBZone small, small
disadvantaged, service-disabled veteran-owned small, economically disadvantaged women-owned small, or women-owned small eligible under the WOSB
Program in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8, 9, 15, 31, and 36 of the
Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility,
shall—

(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both;

(ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and

(iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act.


(End of provision)



52.222-22      PREVIOUS CONTRACTS AND COMPLIANCE REPORTS (FEB 1999)

The offeror represents that --

(a) (  ) It has, (  ) has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation;

(b) (  ) It has, (  ) has not, filed all required compliance reports; and

(c) Representations indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained before subcontract
awards.

(End of provision)



52.222-25     AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COMPLIANCE (APR 1984)

The offeror represents that

(a) [  ] it has developed and has on file, [  ] has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs
required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2), or

(b) [  ] has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the
Secretary of Labor.

(End of provision)
Section L - Instructions, Conditions and Notices to Bidders

CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


|52.212-1                |Instructions to Offerors--Commercial Items                                |APR 2014         |                       |
|52.214-7                |Late Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals of Bids                  |NOV 1999         |                       |
|52.215-1 Alt I          |Instructions to Offerors--Competitive Acquisition (Jan 2004) -  Alternate |OCT 1997         |                       |
|                        |I                                                                         |                 |                       |




CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY FULL TEXT


   2.     SERVICE OF PROTEST (SEP 2006)

(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any
protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by
obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from

Jacqueline D. Johnson
DISA/DITCO/PL8322
2300 East Drive
Scott AFB IL 62225-5406


(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO.

(End of provision)



52.252-1     SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full
text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include
blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions,
the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the
full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):

http://farsite.hill.af.mil

http://www.acquisition.gov/far

(End of provision


SECTION L

SECTION L



L-III  Information To Offerors And Instructions For Proposal Preparation





1.0  Program Title and Objectives


   a. Global Content Delivery Service

   b.   The objective is to obtain reliable, responsive, and cost effective content delivery services that are dynamically scalable and utilize
an on-demand service approach to support DISA and other DISA-approved locations in the continental United States (CONUS) and outside of the
continental United States (OCONUS).

The service provider shall procure, install, uninstall,  transport, perform power up configuration, and provide all areas of hardware, technical
personnel, software, data replication services, hardware/software upgrades, maintenance, replacement, and disposal.  Additional procurements
will include the provision of switches, servers, racks, remote power distribution units, uninterruptible power supply devices, storage area
network or network attached storage devices, and monitoring/reporting software used to support the content delivery services at all locations
worldwide.  Service provision will include naval vessels and/ or tactical locations.  The service provider shall provide full Network Operations
Command Center capability and support for all service offerings.


2.0  General Instructions

      (a) This section of the Information to Offerors provides general guidance for preparing proposals as well as specific instructions on the
format and content of the proposal. The offeror's proposal must include all data and information requested by the RFP and must be submitted in
accordance with these instructions.  The offer shall be compliant with the requirements as stated in the Performance Work Statement (PWS).  Non-
conformance with the instructions provided in this Information to Offerors may result in removal of the proposal from further evaluation.


      (b) The proposal shall be clear, concise, and shall include sufficient detail for effective evaluation and for substantiating the validity
of stated claims.  The proposal should not simply rephrase or restate the Government's requirements but rather shall provide convincing
rationale to address how the offeror intends to meet these requirements.  Offerors shall assume that the Government has no prior knowledge of
their facilities and experience and will base its evaluation on the information presented in the offeror's proposal.


      (c) Elaborate brochures or documentation, binding, detailed art work, internet hyperlinks, or other embellishments are unnecessary and are
not desired.

      (d) The proposal acceptance period is specified in Section A of the solicitation.  The offeror shall make a clear statement in Section A of
the proposal documentation volume that the proposal is valid through this date.


      (e) In accordance with FAR Subpart 4.8 (Government Contract Files), the Government will retain one copy of all unsuccessful proposals.
Unless the offeror requests otherwise, the Government will destroy extra copies of such unsuccessful proposals.




2.1  General Information





2.1.1  Points of Contact

The Contracting Officer (KO), Jacqueline Johnson (Jacqueline.D.Johnson20.civ@mail.mil), and Contract Specialist (CS), Kyle Martin
(kyle.e.martin24.civ@mail.mil) are the only authorized points of contact for this procurement.  Address any questions or concerns you may have
to the KO and CS.  Written requests for clarification must be sent electronically to the KO and CS at the email addresses located in Section A
of the solicitation.


2.1.2  Debriefings

The KO will notify offerors of any decision to exclude them from the competitive range; whereupon, they may request and receive a debriefing in
accordance with FAR 15.505.  Offerors excluded from the competitive range may request a pre-award debriefing or they may choose to wait until
after the source selection decision to request a post-award debriefing.  However, offerors excluded from the competitive range are entitled to
no more than one debriefing for each proposal.  The KO will notify unsuccessful offerors in the competitive range of the source selection
decision in accordance with FAR 15.506.  Upon such notification, unsuccessful offerors may request and receive a debriefing.  Offerors desiring
a debriefing must make their request in accordance with the requirements of FAR 15.505 or 15.506, as applicable.


2.1.3  Discrepancies

If any offeror believes that the requirements in these instructions contain an error, omission, or are otherwise unsound, the offeror shall
immediately notify the KO in writing.  The offeror is reminded that the Government reserves the right to award this effort based on the initial
proposal, as received, without discussion.




2.1.4  Electronic Reference Documents

All referenced documents for this solicitation are available on the FedBizOpps web site at http://www.fedbizopps.gov.  Potential offerors are
encouraged to subscribe for real-time e-mail notifications when information has been posted to the website for this solicitation.  The GCDS
FedBizOpps web page is http://www.fedbizopps.gov/.

Also, potential Offerors must be registered on the DITCO Contracting Opportunities web site, https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop.  If the Offeror
has an existing account (i.e. registered with DITCO for a prior solicitation) it is not necessary to re-register.  The Offeror may use that
existing account to upload this proposal.  If the Offeror is required to register on the DITCO web site, during the registration process, choose
the option for “The solicitation requires offeror registrations for eligibility.”  The Offeror will then be prompted to enter the RFP number.
The RFP number entered at this point is only used to help DITCO prioritize the order in which to review and approve the registration requests.
Upon completion of the on-line registration process, a DITCO representative will review and approve the registration request before the Offeror
will be given access to the protected areas of the web site.  As soon as the registration has been approved, an email will be sent to the email
address of the person who registered.  The email will contain a user id and password that will be needed when uploading proposals.  The approval
of the registration request usually takes about one business day.  This registration process allows DITCO to precisely track when proposals are
uploaded (or attempted to be uploaded).  Offerors are strongly encouraged to register a minimum of one week prior to uploading a proposal to
ensure the proposal upload is accomplished by the closing date and time.  Offerors should also attempt to upload their proposal as early as
possible to ensure no problems arise at the last minute.  If you have any problems, please contact the DITCO customer service center at (618)
229-9333.

In order to respond to this solicitation, the Offeror must upload a complete proposal to the DITCO web site at https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop
no later than the time and date specified in Section A.  It will be necessary to use a web browser with 128-bit (domestic strength) encryption.
Secure Sockets Layer (SSL), ensuring the confidentiality of the submission, will protect the proposal submission web session.  The DITCO
Contracting Opportunities web site provides a link for Offerors to test the upload process.  This test link can be found on the web site’s home
page, https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop, in the right side menu under the heading, Test the Upload Process, RFP #HC1028-14-R-0015  If you have any
problems please contact the DITCO Customer Service Center at (618) 229-9333.  The DISA Enterprise Services Directorate (ESD) Information
Technology (IT) Engineering Support Services FedBizOpps web page is http://www.fedbizopps.gov/ and https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop.


2.1.5  Communications

Exchanges of sources selection information between Government and Offerors will be controlled by the KO/CS.  Email may be used to transmit such
information to Offerors only if the email can be sent and received encrypted and includes “Source Selection Information-See FAR 2.101 & 3.104”
in the Subject line.




2.2  Organization/Number of Copies/Page Limits

The offeror shall prepare the proposal as set forth in the Proposal Organization Table (Table 2.2 below).  The titles and contents of the
volumes shall be as defined in this table, all of which shall be within the required page limits and with the number of copies as specified in
Table 2.2.  The attachments identified in the table shall be separately bound in three-ring, loose-leaf binders, as necessary.  The contents of
each proposal volume are described in table 2.2 Proposal Organization.

                                                         Table 2.2 Proposal Organization
|VOLUME            |RFP Paragraph           |VOLUME TITLE                                 |PAGE LIMIT                                          |
|                  |Number                  |                                             |                                                    |
|I                 |                        |Executive Summary                            |5 pages                                             |
|II                |                        |Technical/Management Offerings               |75 pages (includes all Government requirements) No  |
|Section L and RFP |                        |Response to PWS Template                     |more than 10 pages of illustrations and diagrams    |
|Attachment        |                        |                                             |                                                    |
|II                |Section L, 4.2,         |Small Business Participation (Subcontracting |No Page Limit                                       |
|                  |Subfactor 3 & M002, Para|Plan)                                        |                                                    |
|                  |B(1) Subfactor 3        |                                             |                                                    |
|III               |                        |Relevant Past Performance                    |40 pages                                            |
|                  |                        |                                             |Complete Attachment L-3 for a minimum of two        |
|                  |                        |                                             |references for the offeror/prime, teaming partner,  |
|                  |                        |                                             |and/or joint venture partner (within the same       |
|                  |                        |                                             |division or cost center) and a minimum of two       |
|                  |                        |                                             |references for each subcontractor as stated in L-2  |
|                  |                        |                                             |para b.  Cannot exceed a total of 4 maximum, 10     |
|                  |                        |                                             |pages each. Consent letters cannot exceed a total of|
|                  |                        |                                             |2 pages. Client Authorization letters cannot exceed |
|                  |                        |                                             |1 page.                                             |
|IV                |                        |Cost/Price                                   |No Page Limit                                       |
|V                 |                        | Contract Documentation                      |  No Page Limit                                     |



2.2.1  Page Limitation

Page limitations shall be treated as maximums.  If exceeded, the excess pages will not be read or considered in the evaluation of the proposal.
Page limitations may be placed on responses to Evaluation Notices (ENs).  The specified page limits for EN responses will be identified in the
letters forwarding the ENs to the offerors.  Page limitations shall not be circumvented by including inserted text boxes/pop-ups or internet
links to additional information; such inclusions are not acceptable and will not be considered part of the proposal.  The Government reserves
the right not to consider for award any proposal that does not adhere to the administrative requirements of this solicitation.  Each page shall
be counted except the following:  Cover pages, table of contents, tabs, and glossaries.


2.2.2  Page Size and Format



2.2.2.1

A page is defined as each face of a sheet of paper containing information.  When both sides of a sheet display printed material, it shall be
counted as two pages.  Page size shall be 8.5 x 11 inches, not including foldouts.  Pages shall be typed with 1.5 line spacing.  Except for the
reproduced sections of the solicitation document, the text size will be no less than 10 point Ariel, Times New Roman, or Courier New font for
all text.  The technical volume of the proposal is to be submitted as an MSWord 2007 or PDF document.  Tracking, kerning, and leading values
shall not be changed from the default values of the word processing or page layout software.  Use at least 1 inch margins on the top and bottom
and ¾-inch side margins.  Pages shall be numbered sequentially by volume.  These page format restrictions shall apply to responses to ENs.  The
technical portion of the quotation is to be submitted as an MSWord 2007 or PDF document.  These limitations shall apply to both electronic and
hard copy proposals.


2.2.2.2

Legible tables, charts, graphs and figures shall be used wherever practical to depict organizations, systems and layout, implementation
schedules, plans, etc.  These displays shall be uncomplicated, legible, and shall not exceed 11 by 17 inches in size. Foldout pages shall fold
entirely within the volume, and each 8.5 x 11 surface of a foldout shall be counted as a separate page.  Foldout pages may only be used for
large tables, charts, graphs, diagrams and schematics not for pages of text. For tables, charts, graphs and figures, the text shall be no
smaller than 10 point Ariel, Times New Roman, or Courier New font for all text included in a table.  These limitations shall apply to both
electronic and hard copy proposals.


2.2.3  Cost or Pricing Information

All cost or pricing information shall be addressed ONLY in the Cost/Price Proposal and Contract Documentation Volumes.  Cost trade-off
information, work-hour estimates, and material kinds and quantities may be used in other volumes only as appropriate for presenting rationale
for alternatives or design and trade-off decisions.


2.2.4  Classified Information

No classified requirements exist for GCDS.  Security requirements are outlined in the DD254.


2.2.5  Cross-Referencing

To the greatest extent possible, each volume should be written on a stand-alone basis so that its contents may be evaluated with a minimum of
cross referencing to other volumes of the proposal.  Information required for proposal evaluation which is not found in its designated volume
will be assumed to have been omitted from the proposal.  Cross-referencing within a proposal volume is permitted where its use would conserve
space without impairing clarity.  The Offeror should fill out the cross reference matrix at Attachment L-1 of this Instruction to Offerors
indicating the proposal reference information as it relates to the RFP, PWS, and CLIN/SLIN numbers references found therein.


2.2.6  Indexing

Each volume shall contain a more detailed table of contents to delineate the subparagraphs within that volume.  Tab indexing shall be used to
identify sections.


2.2.7 Glossary of Abbreviations and Acronyms

Each volume shall contain a glossary of all abbreviations and acronyms used, and with an explanation for each.  Glossaries do not count against
the page limitations for their respective volumes


2.3  Electronic Offers

In order to respond to this solicitation, the offeror shall deliver a copy of its proposal in CD-ROM format to DISA/DITCO, Attn:  Jacqueline
Johnson PL8322, 2300 East Drive, Building 3600, Scott AFB, IL 62225 and shall upload a complete proposal to the DITCO web site at
https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop not later than the time and date specified in this solicitation.  It will be necessary to use a web browser with
128-bit (domestic strength) encryption.  SSL, ensuring the confidentiality of the submission will protect the proposal submission web session.
In accordance with FAR 52.215-1, ALT, Instructions to Offerors, the offeror's proposal submission will be considered complete when all volumes
are received.

Submitting proposals via the worldwide web:  Prior to submitting proposals, the offerors shall be register in the Central Contractor
Registration (CCR) Database (http://www.sam.gov).  The offeror must also have an External Certification Authority (ECA)
https://www.ditco.disa.mil/news/news_article.asp?artid=3020 and be registered on the DITCO Contracting Opportunities web site,
https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop.  If the offeror has an existing account (i.e., registered with DITCO for a prior solicitation) it is not
necessary to re-register.  The offeror may use that existing account to upload this proposal.  If a new ECA is required, please contact the ECA
vendor as soon as possible.  The length of acquiring a ECA depends on the vendor approval.  If the offeror is required to register on the DITCO
web site, choose the option for "The solicitation requires vendor registrations for eligibility" during the registration process.  The offeror
will then be prompted to enter the solicitation number.  The solicitation number entered at this point is only used to help DITCO prioritize the
order in which to review and approve the registration requests.  Upon completion of the on-line registration process, a DITCO representative
will review and approve the registration request before the offeror will be given access to the protected areas of the web site.  As soon as the
registration has been approved, an email will be sent to the email address of the person who registered.  The email will contain a user id and
password that will be needed when uploading proposals.  The approval of the registration request usually takes one business day.  This
registration process allows DITCO to precisely track when proposals are uploaded (or attempted to be uploaded).  Offerors are strongly
encouraged to register a minimum of one week prior to uploading a proposal to ensure the proposal upload is accomplished  by the closing date
and time.  Offerors should also attempt to upload their proposal as early as possible to ensure no problems arise at the last minute.  If you
have any problems, please contact the DITCO customer service center at (618)229-9333.  The DITCO Contracting Opportunities web site provides a
link for offerors to test the upload process.  This test link can be found on the web site's home page, https://www.ditco.disa.mil/dcop, in the
right side menu under the heading, Sample Upload, RFP number, HC1028-14-R-0005.  If you have any problems the DITCO Customer Service Center at
(618) 229-9333.


3.0  Volume I-Executive Strategy

In the executive summary volume, the Offeror will provide the following information:


3.1  Narrative Summary

The narrative summary of the entire proposal should be concise, to include addressing the significant risks, and highlighting any key or unique
features, excluding cost/price.  The salient features should tie in with Section M evaluation factors/subfactors.  Any summary material
presented here shall not be considered as meeting the requirements for any portions of other volumes of the proposal.

Factor 1: Technical/Management
      Subfactor 1:  Transition Planning
      Subfactor 2:  Global Content Delivery Service
      Subfactor 3:  Management
      Subfactor 4:  Proof of Concept (If Required)


Factor 2: Past Performance
Factor 3: Cost/Price

Any summary material presented here will not be considered as meeting the requirements for any portions of other volumes of the proposal.


3.2  Table of Contents

Include a Master Table of Contents of the entire proposal.


4.0  Volume II-Technical/Management Volume



4.1  General

The Technical/Management Volume should be specific and complete.  Your responses will be evaluated against the technical/management subfactors
defined in Section M, Evaluation Factors for Award.  Using the instructions provided below, provide as specifically as possible the actual
methodology you would use for accomplishing/satisfying these subfactors.  All the requirements specified in the solicitation are mandatory.
Do not merely reiterate the objectives or reformulate the requirements specified in the solicitation.


4.2  Format and Specific Content

Please construct and present your responses according to and within the PWS template.  Ensure your responses in the PWS template address the
following:

Volume II-
   1. Technical Management-Factor 1
      Subfactor 1:  Transition Planning
      Subfactor 2:  Global Content Delivery Service
      Subfactor 3:  Management
      Subfactor 4:  Proof of Concept (If Required)



4.2.1  Technical/Management

In the Technical/Management volume, address your proposed approach to meeting or exceeding the minimum performance or capability requirements of
each technical/management subfactor, as well as the risks in your proposed approach in terms of technical/performance, cost, and/or schedule.


4.2.1.1  Proof of Concept

If a Proof of Concept Demonstration is required ALL Offerors in the competitive range will be required to demonstrate their proposed
technical/management solution to members of the SSEB at the Offeror's own demonstration location. The Proof of Concept Demonstration is at the
Offeror's own expense.  The Proof of Concept Demonstration is designed to validate the Offeror's solution with respect to the
technical/management solution.  The Proof of Concept Demonstration will test all five (5) supported environments referenced in Task 3, 6.3.1 of
the PWS.  If a Proof of Concept Demonstration is required, a detailed test plan, together with any Government provided data required to be used
in the demonstration, will be provided to each Offeror 14 calendar days prior to the demonstration.

The rating for the Proof of Concept is pass/fail. The results of the demonstration will be evaluated under the Technical Factor 1 - Subfactor 4.
 If a Proof of Concept Demonstration is NOT deemed necessary by the SSEB then all contractors in the competitive range will receive a "Pass"
rating for the Proof of Concept evaluation under the Technical Factor 1 - Subfactor 4.


4.2.2  Volume II Organization

The Technical/Management volume II must be organized according to the following general outline:
        1) Table of Contents
            (2)  PWS Template



5.0  Volume III- Past Performance-Factor 2



5.1  General

Each Offeror must submit a past performance volume with its proposal, containing past performance information in accordance with the format
contained in Attachment L-2, Past and Present Performance Information.  This information is required on the offeror and all subcontractors,
teaming partners, and/or joint venture partners who are proposed to perform at least 40% or more of the proposed effort based on the total
proposed price or perform aspects of the effort the offeror considers critical to overall successful performance.  Offerors are cautioned that
the Government will use data provided by each offeror in this volume and data obtained from other sources in the evaluation of past performance.


Along with the information required in this paragraph, the offeror shall submit a consent letter executed by each subcontractor, teaming
partner, and/or joint venture partner, authorizing release of past performance information to the offeror so the offeror can respond to such
information.
Client authorization letters cannot exceed more than one page.


5.2  Relevant Contracts

Submit information in accordance with the past performance information using the format contained in Attachment L-2.  Past and Present
Performance Information for the offeror/prime and subcontractors on a minimum of 2 recent (active within the past three years from the date of
the solicitation) contracts or orders in all task areas or two contracts or orders with substantial capacity services and/or storage capability.
 This information is required on the offeror/prime, teaming partner, and /or joint venture partners, and subcontractors proposed to perform at
least 40% of the proposed effort based on the total proposed price, or perform aspects of the effort the Offeror considers relevant to overall
successful performance.  The total of Past and Present Performance Information references will not exceed four, of which two must be for the
offeror/prime and teaming partner/joint venture partner/subcontractor that may perform more than 40% of the requirement.  Total page count will
not exceed 40 pages.  Include rationale supporting your assertion of relevance.  For a description of the characteristics or aspects the
Government will consider in determining recency and relevance, see Section M, provision M002 - Evaluation Factors, paragraph C - Past
Performance Factor.  The Government uses degrees of relevancy when assessing recent, relevant contracts DoD Source Selection Procedures,
paragraph 3.1.3.1, Table 4, exerted in Section M as Table 3, Past Performance Relevancy Ratings.  The past performance evaluation team will
consider the performance quality of relevant recent efforts for the second aspect of the past performance evaluation using Section M Table 4,
Past Performance Quality Assessment. Finally, the past performance evaluation team will review this past performance information and determine
the quality as it applies to performance confidence assessment.  Performance Confidence Assessment ratings are identified in Section M, Table 5.


5.2.1  Specific Content

Offerors are required to explain what aspects of the contracts are deemed relevant to the proposed effort and to what aspects of the proposed
effort they relate.  This may include a discussion of efforts accomplished by the offeror to resolve problems encountered on prior contracts as
well as past efforts to identify and manage program risk.  Merely having problems does not automatically equate to a limited or no confidence
rating, since the problems encountered may have been on a more complex program, or an offeror may have subsequently demonstrated the ability to
overcome the problems encountered.  The offeror is required to clearly demonstrate management actions employed in overcoming problems and the
effects of those actions in terms of improvements achieved or problems rectified.    Categorize the relevant information into the specific
technical/management subfactors used to evaluate the proposal.


5.2.2  Organizational Structure Change History

Many companies have acquired, been acquired by, or otherwise merged with other companies, and/or reorganized their divisions, business groups,
subsidiary companies, etc.  In many cases, these changes have taken place during the time of performance of relevant past efforts or between
conclusion of recent past efforts and this source selection.  As a result, it is sometimes difficult to determine what past performance is
relevant to this procurement.  To facilitate this relevancy determination, include in this proposal volume a "roadmap" describing all such
changes in the organization of your company.  A pamphlet or other commercial document describing such reorganizations may suffice.  As part of
this explanation, show how these changes impact the relevance of any efforts you identify for past performance evaluation/confidence assessment.
 Since the Government intends to consider past performance information provided by other sources as well as that provided by the offerors, your
"roadmap" should be both specifically applicable to the efforts you identify and general enough to apply to efforts on which the Government
receives information from other sources.


6.0  Cost/Price-Factor 3



6.1  General Instructions



6.1.1  Cost/Price Reasonableness

This section is to assist you in submitting information other than cost or pricing data that is required to evaluate the reasonableness of your
proposed cost/price.  Compliance with these requirements is mandatory and failure to comply may result in rejection of your proposal and removal
of the proposal from further consideration.  Note that exceptionally low or high proposed costs or prices, initially or subsequently, may be
grounds for eliminating a proposal from competition either on the basis that the offeror does not understand the requirement.  Additionally,
unbalanced pricing poses an unacceptable risk to the Government and may be a reason to reject an offeror’s proposal.  Cost submissions should be
sufficiently detailed to demonstrate their reasonableness and be adequate enough to support and sustain a DCAA audit.


6.1.2  Cost/Price Information

Pricing submitted for the base period and all option periods, including option pricing for an additional six-month period that may be authorized
IAW FAR 52.217-8 "Option to Extend Services" will be evaluated. See FAR 52.217-8 which authorizes the Government to require continued
performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. The pricing proposal should include separate line
items by CLIN for the additional six-month period IAW FAR 52.217-8. These prices shall be identical to the proposed pricing in the six months
prior to expiration of the base period, or the final option period, if option periods are present. The total evaluated price will consist of the
proposed price for the base period, all option periods, and the option pricing for the additional 6-month period.  Pricing will be incorporated
into Schedule B and related B-Tables upon contract award and used for all orders placed post-contract award.


6.1.3  Cost or Pricing Information Requirements

In accordance with FAR 15.403-1(b) and 15.403-3(a), data other than certified cost or pricing data may be required to support cost
reasonableness and cost realism.  Information shall be provided in accordance with FAR 15.403-5.  If, after receipt of proposals, the KO
determines the required conditions of adequate competition do not exist that there is insufficient information available to determine price
reasonableness and none of the exceptions in FAR 15.403-1 apply, the offeror may be required to certify  its submitted cost or pricing data
(see: FAR 15.406-2 – Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data).


6.2  Volume Organization

The Cost/Price volume shall consist of a price/cost proposal outlining the proposed prices for each of the Contract Line Item Number
(CLIN)/Subcontract Line Item Number (SLIN) in MS Excel Version 2000 or newer. The Government has provided a baseline ‘Attachment J-6 Cost Model’
that the Offerors shall utilize in pricing their proposal.  Within the Attachment J-6 Cost Model, offerors are required to prices for all
contract years for all open CLINs/SLINs, on the worksheet tab entitled “B-Table.”

With the exception of selected cells within the “B-Table” tab of Attachment J-Cost Model, the Cost Model is protected by the government and
offerors shall not unprotect, alter or add to the Cost Model in any manner not directed in the instructions.

For all GCDS solutions, a complete solution to meet the minimum requirements of the PWS and Proposal Format must be demonstrated using the
Government provided SLINs.

Offerors should not include additional technical data in Volume IV – Cost/Price to include Attachment J- Cost Model and any supplemental
summaries. Technical data should only be included in Volume II of the offeror’s proposal.


6.3 Estimating Methodology

N/A

6.4 Other Information

N/A


7.0  Volume V-Contract Documentation



7.1  Representations and Certifications

The purpose of this volume is to provide information to the Government for preparing the contract document and supporting file.  The Offeror's
proposal must include a signed copy of the solicitation and completion of Sections A through K.


7.1.1  Section A-Solicitation/Contract Form

Completion of blocks 15A/ B and16 and signature and date for blocks 17 and 18 of the Standard Form (SF) 33.  Signature by the Offeror on the
SF33 constitutes an offer, which the Government may accept.  The "original" copy should be clearly marked under separate cover and should be
provided without any punched holes.


7.1.2  Section B-Supplies or Services and Costs/Prices

Completed pricing information in Section B of the RFP.


7.1.3  Section F-Deliveries or Performance

Proposed Delivery Schedule.  The offeror shall propose the delivery schedule by completing the blanks in Section F of the RFP.  The PMO will
need to put a schedule together based off of what is determined as SLINs for the Transition CLIN.


7.1.4  Section G-Contract Administrative Data

See RFP


7.1.5  Section H- Special Contract Requirements

See RFP


7.1.6  Section I-Contract Clauses

See RFP


7.1.7  Section K-Representations, Certification, and other Statements of Offerors

See RFP


7.2  Other Information Required



7.2.1  Authorized Offeror Personnel

Provide the name, title, and telephone number of the company/division point of contact and an alternate who can make decisions with respect to
your proposal and who can obligate your company contractually.  Also, identify those individuals authorized to negotiate with the Government.


7.2.2  Government Offices

Provide the mailing address, telephone and fax numbers and facility codes for the Government Paying Office.
      DISA/DITCO
      Attn: Jacqueline Johnson
      2300 East Drive; Building 3600
      Scott AFB, IL 62225
      Phone: 618-229-9351
      Fax: 618-229- 9177
      Facility Code: HC1028


7.2.3  Company/Division Address, Identifying Codes, and Applicable Designations

Provide company/division's street address, county and facility code; CAGE code; DUNS code; TIN; size of business (large or small); and labor
surplus area designation.  This same information must be provided if the work for this contract will be performed at any other locations.  List
all locations where work is to be performed and indicate whether such facility is a division, affiliate, or subcontractor, and the percentage of
work to be performed at each location.




7.2.4 Attachments to the (Model) Contract


The offeror shall provide the following as attachments to the contract:

7.2.4.1  Participation of Small Disadvantaged Businesses (SDB)

Pursuant to the requirements of FAR 52.219-24, each offeror must provide, with its offer, targets, expressed as dollars and percentages of total
contract value, for SDB participation in any of the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Subsectors as determined by
the Department of Commerce.  NAICS codes and titles are posted at: http://www.census.gov/epcd/naics02/naicod02.htm.  The targets may provide for
participation by a prime contractor, joint venture partner, teaming arrangement member, or subcontractor; however, the targets for
subcontractors must be listed separately.


7.2.4.2  Small Business Participation and Commitment

The Government‘s assessment of small business participation and commitment as measured against the total contract value which is separate from
the FAR requirement for Contracting Officer review and acceptance of an Offeror‘s Small Business Subcontracting Plan.  Large business offerors
shall ensure that individual subcontracting plan submissions are consistent with proposal information. All offerors shall provide the Proposed
Participation Dollars and Percent of Estimated Contract Value for the period of performance. Small business participation is small business
contributions to contract performance at the prime contract through second tier subcontract levels.  Offers shall include a narrative
explanation regarding the basis for and efforts associated with establishing proposed participation dollars and percentages including a breakout
of prime, first tier, and second tier small business participation.

DISA Subcontracting Goals:
Small Business: 36.7%
Small Disadvantaged Business: 5%
Women-Owned Small Business:  5%
Service Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business: 3%
HUBZone Small Business: 3%
Note: The above small business participation targets represent the Government‘s assessment of appropriate minimums expressed as a percentage of
total contract value.

7.2.4.3 Offerors shall identify by name, type of business, product/service, dollar value, timeframe, and nature of commitment the small business
participation planned for this acquisition. Offerors shall clearly describe the nature of commitment (e.g., fully executed teaming agreement,
planned purchase order). Offers shall describe new, contract specific initiatives and tools (e.g., mentor protégé agreements and developing
second sources focused on improving readiness or reducing cost.  Offerors shall describe the process they will use to ensure proper flow-down of
requirements, process management, and performance assessments of small business utilization at lower tiers.

Subcontracting plans will be evaluated on an acceptable/unacceptable basis by the KO, the Small Business Specialist, and Small Business
Administration for compliance with FAR 19.704 and DISA subcontracting goals.


7.2.4.4  Make or Buy

N/A

7.2.4.5   Government Furnished Property (GFP)
N/A

Table 7.3 - Required Information for Using GFP
N/A

7.3.4.6   Associate Contractor Agreements
Include Associate Contractor Agreements, if applicable.


7.3.4.7  Required Attachments

The Offeror must provide the following submittals in response to the RFP:
   a. Transmittal Letter, Form SF33, Solicitation, Offer and Award
   b. On-Line Representations and Certifications (Response to FAR 52.204-8(d))
   c. Cross-Reference Matrix
   d. Past Performance Information Sheets
   e. Technical/Management Document- Performance Work Statement (Section L, Paragraph 4.0 and RFP Attachment J-1)
   f. Cost Model (Attachment J-6)
   g. Subcontracting Plan

7.3.4.7.1 Contract Work Breakdown Structure (CWBS) and CWBS Dictionary
N/A

7.3.4.7.2 Contract Statement of Work (CSOW)
N/A

7.3.4.7.3 Applicable Documents
A list of Applicable Documents has been provided to the offerors as an annex to the PWS attachment in the solicitation, which includes a minimum
list of Government Compliance Documents.  The offeror shall provide a list of any offeror, industry, commercial, and tailored Government
standards, specifications, processes, and/or practices selected as compliance documents.  The offeror shall also provide a list of all
Government compliance documents intended to be used as compliance documents during the course of this contract.  The offeror shall submit a list
of these documents, including any tailoring instructions, as an annex to the proposed SOW.  The offeror shall submit the completed Proposed
Compliance Documents as a separately bound document.



SECTION L ATTACHMENTS

Attachment 1           Cross Reference Matrix

Attachment 2           Past and Present Performance Information Format

Attachment 3     Past Performance Questionnaire

Attachment 4           Sample Questionnaire Cover Letter

Attachment 5           Subcontractor/Teaming Partner Consent Letter































ATTACHMENT 1


CROSS REFERENCE MATRIX


For Prospective Offerors:  See paragraph 2.2.5 regarding instructions for completion of the solicitation Cross-Reference Matrix.  If this matrix
conflicts with any other requirement, direction, or provision of this solicitation, the other reference shall take precedence over this matrix.
Additionally, to the extent this matrix discloses details as to the extent or manner by which the Government intends to evaluate offeror’s
proposals for award, Section M references in the matrix are for information purposes only, and the Government shall be obligated to evaluate
proposals solely in conformance with the provisions of the Section M of the solicitation.

An example of the format is shown below:
|PWS template       |Desc.                        |CLIN       |Section         |Section             |Proposal                |PWS Response            |
|                   |                             |           |L               |M                   |                        |                        |
|                   |                             |           |                |Factors             |                        |                        |
|                   |                             |           |Instructions to |And                 |                        |                        |
|                   |                             |           |Offerors        |Subfactors          |                        |                        |
|4.0 thru 6.7 ,     |Technical  Performance/Mgmt  |0001       |4.0 thru 4.2.1  |F1: SF1, SF2        |                        |                        |
|6.11.1 thru        |                             |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|6.11.4.4           |                             |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|6.8 thru 6.97.0    |Data Migration Strategy      |           |4.0 thru 4.2.1  |F1: SF1             |                        |                        |
|thru 8.0           |                             |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|6.10               |Technical Assistance         |0002       |                |                    |                        |                        |
|6.11.5 thru 6.11.6 |Invoices                     |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|6.12               |Meeting Requirements         |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|6.13               |Reporting Requirements       |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|13.0 thru 13.9     |Security/Information         |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|                   |Assurance                    |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|                   |Small Business Participation |           |4.2, Subfactor 3|F1: SF3             |                        |                        |
|                   |(Subcontracting Plan)        |           |                |                    |                        |                        |
|                   |Past Performance             |           |5.0             |F2                  |                        |                        |
|                   |Cost/Price                   |           |6.0             |F3                  |                        |                        |






ATTACHMENT 2


 PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION


Provide the information requested in this form for each contract/program (citation) being described.  Provide frank, concise comments regarding
your performance on the contracts you identify.  Provide a separate completed form for each contract/program submitted.  Limit the number of
citations submitted and the length of each submission to the limitations set forth at paragraphs 5.0. through 5.2.2, respectively, of Section L-
III of this solicitation.

A.    Offeror Name (Company/Division):  ____________________
      CAGE Code:                  ____________________
      DUNS Number:                      ____________________

(NOTE: If the company or division performing this effort is different than the offeror or the relevance of this effort to the instant
procurement is impacted by any company/corporate organizational change, note those changes.  Refer to the "Organizational Structure Change
History" you provided as part of your Past Performance Volume.)

B.    Program Title:   ________________________________________________________________

C.    Contract Specifics:

1. Contracting Agency or Customer       _____________________________________________
2. Contract Number                __________________________
3. Contract Type             __________________________
4. Period of Performance          __________________________
5. Initial Contract Cost/Price          _________________
6. Current/final Contract Cost/Price    _________________
7. Annual Contract $ Value                _________________
8. If Amounts for 5 and 6 above are different, provide a brief description of the reason
______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________

D.    Brief Description of Effort as __Prime or __Subcontractor
(Please indicate whether it was development and/or production, or other acquisition phase and highlight portions considered most relevant to
current procurement)

E.    Completion Date:

      1. Original date:                 ____________________
      2. Current Schedule:              ____________________
      3. Estimate at Completion:        ____________________
      4. How Many Times Changed:  ____________________
      5. Primary Causes of Change:      ________________________________________
      ____________________________________________________________________

F.    Primary Customer Points of Contact:  (For Government contracts provide current information on both individuals.  For commercial contracts,
provide points of contact fulfilling these same roles.)

      1. Program Manager:    Name       ____________________
                             Office     ____________________
                             Address____________________
                                  ____________________
                             Telephone ____________________

      2. Contracting Officer:     Name  ____________________
                             Office     ____________________
                             Address____________________
                                  ____________________
                             Telephone ____________________

G.  Address any technical/management (or other) area about this contract/program considered unique.

H.    For each of the applicable subfactors under the technical/management factor in Section M, illustrate how your experience on this program
applies to that subfactor.

I.    Specify, by name, any key individuals who participated in this program and are proposed to support the instant procurement.  Also,
indicate their contractual roles for both procurements.

J.  Include relevant information concerning your compliance with subcontracting plan goals for SDB concerns, monetary targets for SDB
participation, and notifications submitted under FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program—Disadvantaged Status and
Reporting.

K.    Include relevant information concerning your compliance with FAR 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns, on the contract you are
submitting.

L.    Identify whether a subcontracting plan in accordance with FAR 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan, was required by the contract
you are submitting.  If one was required, identify, in percentage terms, the planned versus achieved goals during contract performance.  If
goals were not met, please explain.

M.    Describe the nature or portion of the work on the proposed effort to be performed by the business entity being reported here.  Also,
estimate the percentage of the total proposed effort to be performed by this entity and whether this entity will be performing as the prime,
subcontractor, or a corporate division related to the prime (define relationship).



N.  Identify any Earned Value Management or similar metrics required to track contract performance.  If such metrics were required for this
contract, provide the summary level data.



ATTACHMENT 3


PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE



SECTION I:  CONTRACT IDENTIFICATION

1. Contractor: ________________________________________________________________
2. Cage Code of contractor contract was awarded to: _________________________________
3. Contract number: _______________________________________
4. Contract type (e.g., firm fixed price, cost plus, etc.): _____________________________
5. Was this a competitively awarded contract?  Yes _____  No _____
6. Period of performance: __________________________________________________
7. Initial contract cost: $____________________________
8. Current/final contract cost: $_______________________________
9. Reasons for differences between initial contract cost and final contract cost:
______________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________
10. Description of service provided:_________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
_________________________________________________________________________________________
11. Geographic description of services under this contract, e.g., local, nationwide, worldwide, other Commands,
   etc.:_______________________________________________________


SECTION II.  EVALUATOR AND AGENCY IDENTIFICATION
A. Agency (customer) name: __________________________________________________________________________
   B. Evaluator's name and title: ____________________________________________________
C. Evaluator's phone number and email address: __________________________________________________________________________


SECTION III.  PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONS/EVALUATION
(Circle your response, and/or provide written responses, when applicable.)
1. Technical Performance
   a. Did the contractor meet the technical requirements of the PWS/SOW?
   Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______


      b. What was the overall quality of the contractor’s performance?   _____________________
______________________________________________________________________________
2.  Program Management
    a. Did the contractor effectively manage and direct the contract?
      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

    b. Did the contractor maintain good business relations with the agency?

      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

3.  Transition/Phase-In
     Did the contractor smoothly transition its resources and personnel?
      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

4. Employee Staff and Retention
     a. Did the contractor recruit, hire, train and retain a qualified workforce with the appropriate
     skill levels during the term of the contract, and maintain a low turnover rate?

      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

     b. Did the contractor replace departing personnel with employees of the same quality and skills and do so with minimal disruption to
   contract performance?

      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

5. Cost Performance
      a. Did the contractor effectively forecast, manage and control costs? Did it alert the agency of unforeseen costs before they occurred?

      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

      b. Did the contractor meet forecasted costs and perform within contract costs?
      Yes         No
   If no, please explain:
   _______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
   _______

For question number 6, please use ONE of the following performance levels to answer the question:
          EXCEPTIONAL (E) (Blue) - During the contract period, contractor performance meets or met contractual requirements and exceeds or
          exceeded many to the Government's benefit.  The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished
          with few minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.
          VERY GOOD (VG) (Purple) - During the contract period, contractor performance meets or met contractual requirements and exceeds or
          exceeded some to the Government's benefit. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished
          with some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective
          SATISFACTORY(S) (Green)  – During the contract period, contractor performance meets or met contractual requirements. The contractual
          performance of the element or sub-element being assessed contained some minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the
          contractor appear or were satisfactory.


          MARGINAL (M) (Yellow) – During the contract period, contractor performance does not or did not meet some contractual requirements. The
          contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet
          identified corrective actions. The contractor's proposed actions appear only marginally effective or were not fully implemented.
          UNSATISFACTORY (U) (Red) – During the contract period, contractor performance does not or did not meet most contractual requirements
          and recovery in a timely manner is not likely. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s)
          for which the contractor's corrective actions appear or were ineffective.


6.  What is your OVERALL level of satisfaction with the contractor’s performance?
Exceptional        Very Good        Satisfactory        Marginal        Unsatisfactory


SECTION IV.  RETURN OF COMPLETED FORM
Please return your completed form to:

Mailing/Emailing Address:  Kyle.E.Martin24.civ@mail.mil


                                                                   ATTACHMENT 4
                                                        SAMPLE QUESTIONNAIRE COVER LETTER

                                                                    LETTERHEAD
                                                                      (Date)
                                                              FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY


      The DISA Enterprise Services Directorate (ESD) is in the process of selecting a contractor for the Global Content Delivery Services (GCDS)
program. The objective in RFP # HC1028-14-R-0005 is to obtain reliable, responsive, and cost effective content delivery services that are
dynamically scalable and utilize an on-demand service approach to support DISA and other DISA-approved locations in the continental United
States (CONUS) and outside of the continental United States (OCONUS).  One of the considerations in proposal evaluation is the verification of
the offerors' past and present performance on contracts, which reflect the offeror's ability to perform on the proposed effort.  We depend on
information received from agencies such as yours, which have had firsthand experience with an offeror, for the evaluation of the offeror's
performance on those contracts.

      Our areas of interest in the offeror are summarized in the enclosed questionnaire.  As discussed in our initial  phone  contact  with  your
office, our schedule is extremely tight and we need your written response no later than _______ calendar days after your receipt of this  letter.
 To assist you in preparing your response and expediting your reply, the questionnaire may be filled  out  by  hand  and  "faxed"  to  XXXXX-XXXX
(Attention: ______________) or you can email your completed questionnaire to ___________.

      Please call _______________at XXXXX-XXXX prior to fax transmission or if you have any questions.  Your completed questionnaire will  become
a part of the official contract file.  Your help is greatly appreciated and your prompt response will be one of the keys to  the  successful  and
timely completion of this Source Selection.



                                          _________________________            Signature

1 Atch
Questionnaire





                                                                   ATTACHMENT 5
                                                   Subcontractor/Teaming Partner Consent Letter
                                           for the Release of Past and Present Performance Information
                                                             to the Prime Contractor



Past performance information concerning subcontractors and teaming partners cannot be disclosed to a private party without the subcontractor’s
or teaming partner’s consent. Because a prime contractor is a private party, the Government will need that consent before disclosing
subcontractor/teaming partner past and present performance information to the prime contractor during exchanges. In an effort to assist the
Government’s Past Performance Evaluation Team (PPET) in assessing your past performance relevancy and confidence, we request that the following
consent letter be completed by the major subcontractors/teaming partners identified in your proposal.  The completed consent letters should be
submitted as part of your Present/Past Performance Volume.

                                                                      SAMPLE

Dear “Contracting Officer:”

We are participating as a (subcontractor/teaming partner) with (prime contractor or name of entity providing proposal) in responding to the
DISA, Request for Proposal HC1028-14-R-0015 for the Enterprise Storage Solution (ESS) II contract.

We understand that the Government is placing increased emphasis on past performance in order to obtain best value in source selections. In order
to facilitate the performance confidence assessment process we are signing this consent letter to allow you to discuss our past and present
performance information with the prime contractor during the source selection process.

___________________
___________________
(Signature and title of individual who has the authority to sign for and legally bind the company)

Company Name:
Address:




TECH REFRESH DURING BASE YEARS
All vendors are required to technically refresh a minimum of 1 time during the base 3 year period.  The refresh can be at the start by providing
new equipment when the award is made or anytime before the expiration of the base period For the tech refresh, there is no direction outside of
base year implementation as noted.  A "new" vendor would need to bring equipment as to establish IOC and FOC (this is their one required tech
refresh), there is no
further requirement for tech refresh in this situation.  For the incumbent, the only guidance is that this refresh would occur during the base
years of the contract.


DARS 52.215-9000

52.215-9000  Cross Reference Matrix

As prescribed in 15.204-5(S-90), use the following provision:


                                                        CROSS REFERENCE MATRIX (DEC 2010)


(a) The purpose of the cross reference matrix is to show critical interrelationships and dependencies among the Work Breakdown Schedule (WBS),
Statement of Objective (SOO), Contract Line Items (CLINs), Contract Data Requirements List (CDRL) and Information to Offerors (ITOs).  The
matrix ensures that all requirements are addressed, requirements do not conflict and solicitation sections are internally consistent.

(b) Cross Referencing.  To the greatest extent possible, each proposal volume shall be written on a stand-alone basis so that its contents may
be evaluated with a minimum of cross referencing to other volumes of the proposal.  Information required for proposal evaluation which is not
found
in its designated volume will be assumed to have been omitted from the proposal.

(1) Cross referencing within a proposal volume is ONLY permitted where its use would conserve space without impairing clarity.  Otherwise, cross
referencing within a proposal volume is not permitted.

(2) The offeror shall fill out the cross reference matrix at Attachment                  of this ITO
indicating the proposal reference information as it relates to the ITO, SOW/SOO/PWS, CLIN numbers, and CDRL references found therein.  The
offeror shall provide a cross reference matrix indicating, by ITO, SOW/SOO/PWS, and/or specification paragraph number, the corresponding
proposal paragraph in that section which addresses the referenced item.

(c) Cross Reference Matrix for Prospective Offerors: See paragraph (b) of this provision regarding instructions for completion of the
solicitation Cross Reference Matrix.  If this matrix conflicts with any other requirement, direction or provision of this solicitation, the
other
reference shall take precedence over this matrix. Additionally, to the extent this matrix discloses details as to the extent or manner by which
the Government intends to evaluate offeror’s proposals for award,  Section M references in the matrix are for information purposes only and the
Government shall be obligated to evaluate proposals solely in conformance with the provisions of the Section M of the solicitation.  An example
of the format is shown below:



|SOLICITATION CROSS REFERENCE MATRIX                                                                                                                     |
|REQ.                    |WORK                                                                      |WBS              |CLIN                   |
|52.217-5                |Evaluation Of Options                                                     |JUL 1990         |                       |
|52.222-24               |Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation                  |FEB 1999         |                       |


SECTION M

SECTION M



EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD


M-I –SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The following provisions are hereby incorporated by reference:

A. Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) (48 CFR Chapter 1) Solicitation Provisions: TBD

B. Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS) (48 CFR Chapter 2) Solicitation Provisions: TBD

C. DISA Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DARS) Solicitation Provisions: TBD
M-II – SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED IN FULL TEXT

The following provisions are hereby incorporated in full text:

A. Federal Acquisition Regulation (48 CFR Chapter 1) Solicitation Provisions: TBD

B. Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (48 CFR Chapter 2) Solicitation Provisions: TBD

C. DISA Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DARS) Solicitation Provisions: TBD

D.  Administrative and One-Time Use Provisions: TBD




M001 SOURCE SELECTION


      a.  Basis for Contract Award
This is a best value source selection conducted in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 15.3, Source Selection, as supplemented
by the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS), and the DISA Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DARS).  These regulations are
available electronically at http://www.ditco.disa.mil/hq/aqinfo.asp and http://farsite.hill.af.mil.  The Government will select the best overall
offer, based upon an integrated assessment of technical/management, past performance, and cost/price.  Contracts may be awarded to the offeror
who is deemed responsible in accordance with the FAR, as supplemented, whose proposal conforms to the solicitation’s requirements (to include
all stated terms, conditions, representations, certifications, and all other information required by Section L of this solicitation) and is
judged, based on the evaluation factors and subfactors to represent the best value to the Government.  The Government seeks to award to the
offeror who gives DISA  the greatest confidence that it will best meet, or exceed, the requirements.  The SSA will base the source selection
decision on an integrated assessment of proposals against all source selection criteria in the solicitation (described below).

      b.  Evaluation
The technical proposal should include all information the offeror wants the Government to consider and evaluate regarding its company’s ability
to perform all required tasks and conform to all required terms and conditions.  The best value determination will be based on the stated
evaluation factors.

The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors.  However, the Government reserves the right
to conduct discussions or seek clarifications if the Contracting Officer (KO) determines they are necessary.  In the event issues pertaining to
a proposed contract cannot be resolved to the KO’s satisfaction, the Government reserves the right to withdraw and cancel the proposed contract.
 In such event, offerors will be notified in writing.  In the event a competitive range is established and the KO determines that the number of
proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the KO may
limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the greatest number that will permit an efficient competition.

      c.  Evaluation of Options
The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the base period.  The
offeror shall submit pricing for the base period and all option periods, including option pricing for an additional six-month period that may be
authorized IAW FAR 52.217-8.  See FAR 52.217-8 which authorizes the government to require continued performance of any services within the
limits and at the rates specified in the contract.  The pricing proposal should include a separate line item for the additional six-month period
IAW FAR 52.217-8.  These prices shall be identical to the proposed pricing in the six months prior to expiration of the base period, or the
final option period, if option periods are present.  The total evaluated price will consist of the contractor’s proposed price for the base
period, all option periods, and the option pricing for the additional six-month period.  The Government may determine that an offer is
unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced.  Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the
option(s).


      d.  Number of Contracts to be Awarded

The Government intends to award a single Indefinite Delivery/Indefinite Quantity contract for the GCDS Program; however, the Government reserves
the right to make no award at all.


      e.  Rejection of Offers

The Government may reject any proposal that is evaluated to be non-viable in terms of program commitments, contract terms and conditions.
Additionally, the Government may reject proposals that are exceptionally high or low in cost when compared to Government estimates, such that
the proposal is deemed to reflect an inherent lack of competence or failure to comprehend the complexity and risks of the program.


M002 EVALUATION FACTORS

      a.  Evaluation Factors and Subfactors
            (1)  The following evaluation factors and subfactors will be used to evaluate each proposal.  Award will be made to the offeror
      proposing the combination most advantageous to the Government based upon an integrated assessment of the evaluation factors and subfactors
      described below:


      Factor 1:  Technical/Management
            Subfactor 1:  Transition Planning
            Subfactor 2:  Global Content Delivery Service
            Subfactor 3:  Management
            Subfactor 4:  Proof of Concept (If Required)


      Factor 2:  Past Performance


      Factor 3:  Cost/Price


      (2)  Relative Importance of Factors and Subfactors.  Technical/Management is more important than Past Performance and, when combined,
technical/management and past performance are significantly more important than cost/price.  The Technical/Management subfactors are of equal
value.


      b. Technical/Management Factor
The technical/management evaluation provides for two distinct but related assessments:  the technical/management rating and the
technical/management risk rating.

   1) Technical/Management Rating:  The technical/management rating represents the
government’s assessment of the Offeror’s capability to satisfy the Government’s technical storage requirements.  Each technical/management
subfactor will receive one of the color ratings described in the DoD Source Selection Procedures, paragraph 3.1.2.2.1, Table 1 – Technical
Ratings.  The Government will evaluate the technical/management solution documentation in the Offeror’s proposal against the evaluation criteria
in Section M of the RFP.  Each proposal will be evaluated to determine the extent to which the approach proposed demonstrates a thorough
understanding of the scope and complexity of the solicitation task areas as they apply to integration throughout the Department of Defense
(DoD), and its strategic partners.

|Table 1 Technical Ratings                                                                                                                     |
|Color                  |Rating                   |Description                                                                                |
|BLUE                   |Outstanding              |Proposal meets requirements and indicates an exceptional approach and understanding of the |
|                       |                         |requirements.  The proposal contains multiple strengths and no deficiencies.               |
|PURPLE                 |Good                     |Proposal meets requirements and indicates a thorough approach and understanding of the     |
|                       |                         |requirements.  Proposal contains at least one strength and no deficiencies.                |
|GREEN                  |Acceptable               |Proposal meets requirements and indicates an adequate approach and understanding of the    |
|                       |                         |requirements.  Proposal has no strengths or deficiencies.                                  |
|YELLOW                 |Marginal                 |Proposal does not clearly meet requirements and has not demonstrated an adequate approach  |
|                       |                         |and understanding of the requirements.                                                     |
|RED                    |Unacceptable             |Proposal does not meet requirements and contains one or more deficiencies and is           |
|                       |                         |unawardable.                                                                               |

Following the review of the evaluation criteria identified in Table 1, the offerors’ proposals will be reviewed to determine if the offerors
have sufficiently addressed all paragraphs within the PWS in order for their proposal to be responsive to the solicitation.  This review will
only identify whether the offeror’s proposal “Meets”, “Does Not Meet, has a “Deficiency” or “Uncertainty” in their approach to addressing all
paragraphs of the PWS.

Subfactor 1:  Transition Planning
      The Government will evaluate the soundness of the offeror’s plan to ensure uninterrupted, continuous access to content delivery services.
   1. Transition Implementation Strategy: The Government will evaluate
offeror’s Transition Plan showing the methodology for transitioning current GCDS inventory to Contractor provided capacity solution(s) (PWS Task
6.11.1).

   2. Transition Exit Strategy:  The Government will evaluate the offer’s
transition exit strategy showing methodology for draw down and transition of all capabilities that support Content Delivery, Network Storage,
and Video Streaming to a new vendor, as well as impacts to key performance requirements. (PWS Task 6.11.2)

Subfactor 2:  Global Content Delivery Service

      The Government will evaluate the soundness of the offeror’s approach to provide dynamically scalable content delivery service utilizing an
on-demand service approach that will readily adjust to changes in content delivery requirements.


           2.1  The offeror’s approach to ensure 24x7x365 and 99.999% availability in a scalable solution to include fault tolerance, automatic
failover, redundancy, adverse network detection, load balancing, and content mirroring. (PWS subtask 6.20.2 and PWS subtask 6.20.3)


           2.2  The offer’s plan to provide live and on demand adaptive bit rate video streaming (PWS Subtask 6.3.1).


Subfactor 3:  Management


           Service Management:  The Government will evaluate the offeror’s ability to provide application support (PWS 6.5.2) and real-time
monitoring (PWS 6.5.3).


Subfactor 4:  Proof of Concept

      If a Proof of Concept Demonstration is required, ALL Offerors in the competitive range will be required to demonstrate their proposed
technical/management solution to members of the SSEB at the Offeror's own demonstration location.  The Proof of Concept Demonstration is at the
Offeror’s own expense.  The Proof of Concept Demonstration is designed to validate the Offeror's solution with respect to the
technical/management solution.  If a Proof of Concept Demonstration is required, a detailed test plan, together with any Government provided
data required to be used in the demonstration, will be provided to each Offeror 14 calendar days prior to the demonstration.


      The rating for the Proof of Concept is pass/fail.  The results of the demonstration will be evaluated under the Technical Factor 1 –
Subfactor 4.  If a Proof of Concept Demonstration is NOT deemed necessary by the SSEB then all contractors in the competitive range will receive
a “Pass” rating for the Proof of Concept evaluation under the Technical Factor 1 – Subfactor 4.


      (2)  Technical/Management Risk Rating
      The Technical/Management Risk evaluation focuses on the weaknesses or significant weaknesses associated with an offeror's proposed approach
and includes an assessment of the potential for disruption of schedule, increased cost, or degradation of performance, the need for increased
Government oversight, and the likelihood of unsuccessful contract performance.

The technical/management subfactors will receive one of the risk ratings described in the DoD Source Selection Procedures, paragraph 3.1.2.2.2,
Table 2 – Technical Risk Ratings, excerpted below.  They focus on the risks, i.e., weaknesses and significant weaknesses, of the offeror’s
proposed approach to each of the technical/management subfactors.  For any weakness identified, the evaluation shall address the offeror's
proposed mitigation and why that mitigation approach is or is not manageable.

|Table 2. Technical Risk Ratings                                                                                                           |
|Rating                     |Description                                                                                                  |
|Low                        |Has little potential to cause disruption of schedule, increased cost or degradation of performance.  Normal  |
|                           |contractor effort and normal Government monitoring will likely be able to overcome any difficulties.         |
|Moderate                   |Can potentially cause disruption of schedule, increased cost or degradation of performance.  Special         |
|                           |contractor emphasis and close Government monitoring will likely be able to overcome difficulties.            |
|High                       |Is likely to cause significant disruption of schedule, increased cost or degradation of performance.  Is     |
|                           |unlikely to overcome any difficulties, even with special contractor emphasis and close Government monitoring.|

      c.  Past Performance Factor
The past performance evaluation factor assesses the degree of confidence the Government has in an offeror’s ability to supply products and
services that meet users’ needs, based on a demonstrated record of performance.  Performance confidence is assessed at the overall past
performance factor level after evaluating aspects of the offeror’s recent past performance.

Past performance information shall be obtained from any other sources available to the Government, to include, but not limited to, the Past
Performance Information Retrieval System (PPIRS), Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS), Electronic
Subcontract Reporting System (eSRS), or other databases; interviews with Program Managers, Contracting Officers, and Fee Determining Officials;
and the Defense Contract Management Agency.

      (1)  Recency Assessment
An assessment of the past performance information will be made to determine if it is recent.  To be recent, the effort must be ongoing or must
have been performed during the past _3_ years from the date of issuance of this solicitation.  Past performance information that fails this
condition will not be evaluated.

      (2)  Relevancy Assessment
The Government will conduct an in-depth evaluation of all recent performance information obtained.  For each recent past performance reference
reviewed, the relevance of the work performed will generally be assessed for the technical/management factor.  A relevancy determination of the
offeror’s past performance will be made based upon the aforementioned considerations.  The past performance information forms and information
obtained from other sources will be used to establish the degree of relevancy of past performance.  The Government will use the following
degrees of relevancy when assessing recent, relevant contracts (DoD Source Selection Procedures, paragraph 3.1.3.1).


|Table 3.  Past Performance Relevancy Ratings                                                                                            |
|Rating                                     |Definition                                                                                  |
|VERY RELEVANT                              |Present/past performance effort involved essentially the same scope and magnitude of effort |
|                                           |and complexities this solicitation requires.                                                |
|RELEVANT                                   |Present/past performance effort involved similar scope and magnitude of effort and          |
|                                           |complexities this solicitation requires.                                                    |
|SOMEWHAT RELEVANT                          |Present/past performance effort involved some of the scope and magnitude of effort and      |
|                                           |complexities this solicitation requires.                                                    |
|NOT RELEVANT                               |Present/past performance effort involved little or none of the scope and magnitude of effort|
|                                           |and complexities this solicitation requires.                                                |

       (3) Performance Quality Assessment (How well the contractor performed on the contract.)
The Government will consider the performance quality of recent and relevant efforts.  For each recent/relevant past performance reference
reviewed, the performance quality of the work performed will be assessed.  The quality assessment consists of an in-depth evaluation of the past
performance questionnaire responses, PPIRS information, interviews with Government customers and fee determining officials, and if applicable,
commercial clients.  It may include interviews with DCMA officials or other sources known to the Government.

The Government will use the following quality ratings when assessing quality of relevant contracts (DISA Supplemental Source Selection
Procedures, paragraph 3.1.3.1 (S-90).

|Table 4       Past Performance Quality Assessment                                                                                           |
|Quality Assessment Rating/Color                  |Description                                                                               |
|EXCEPTIONAL (E)/BLUE                             |During the contract period, contractor performance meets or met contractual requirements  |
|                                                 |and exceeds or exceeded many to the Government's benefit. The contractual performance of  |
|                                                 |the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with few minor problems for    |
|                                                 |which corrective actions taken by the contractor were highly effective.                   |
|VERY GOOD (VG)/PURPLE                            |During the contract period, contractor performance meets or met contractual requirements  |
|                                                 |and exceeds or exceeded some to the Government's benefit. The contractual performance of  |
|                                                 |the element or sub-element being assessed was accomplished with some minor problems for   |
|                                                 |which corrective actions taken by the contractor were effective.                          |
|SATISFACTORY (S)/GREEN                           |During the contract period, contractor performance meets or met contractual requirements. |
|                                                 |The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being assessed contained some   |
|                                                 |minor problems for which corrective actions taken by the contractor appear or were        |
|                                                 |satisfactory.                                                                             |
|MARGINAL (M)/YELLOW                              |During the contract period, contractor performance does not or did not meet some          |
|                                                 |contractual requirements. The contractual performance of the element or sub-element being |
|                                                 |assessed reflects a serious problem for which the contractor has not yet identified       |
|                                                 |corrective actions. The contractor's proposed actions appear only marginally effective or |
|                                                 |were not fully implemented.                                                               |
|UNSATISFACTORY(U)/RED                            |During the contract period, contractor performance does not or did not meet most          |
|                                                 |contractual requirements and recovery in a timely manner is not likely. The contractual   |
|                                                 |performance of the element or sub-element contains serious problem(s) for which the       |
|                                                 |contractor's corrective actions appear or were ineffective.                               |
|NOT APPLICABLE (N)/WHITE                         |Unable to provide a rating.  Contract did not include performance for this aspect.  Do not|
|                                                 |know.                                                                                     |

      (4) Assigning Performance Confidence Assessment.  As a result of the relevancy and quality assessments of the recent contracts evaluated,
offerors will receive an integrated performance confidence assessment rating.  The resulting performance confidence assessment rating is made at
the past performance factor level and represents an overall evaluation of contractor performance.  Offerors without a record of relevant past
performance or for whom information on past performance is not available that no confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned will
not be evaluated favorably or unfavorably on past performance and, as a result, will receive an "Unknown Confidence" rating for the past
performance factor.

A strong record of relevant past performance may be considered more advantageous to the Government than an "Unknown Confidence" rating.

The past performance factor will receive one of the performance confidence assessments described in the DoD Source Selection Procedures,
paragraph 3.1.3.3.

|TABLE 5- PERFORMANCE CONFIDENCE ASSESSMENTS                                                                                                    |
|Rating                                      |Description                                                                                      |
|SUBSTANTIAL CONFIDENCE                      |Based on the offeror’s recent/relevant performance record, the Government has a high expectation |
|                                            |that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.                                  |
|SATISFACTORY CONFIDENCE                     |Based on the offeror’s recent/relevant performance record, the Government has a reasonable       |
|                                            |expectation that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.                      |
|                                            |Based on the offeror’s recent/relevant performance record, the Government has a low expectation  |
|LIMITED CONFIDENCE                          |that the offeror will successfully perform the required effort.                                  |
|NO                                          | Based on the offeror’s recent/relevant performance record, the Government has no expectation    |
|CONFIDENCE                                  |that the offeror will be able to successfully perform the required effort.                       |
|UNKNOWN CONFIDENCE                          |No recent/relevant performance record is available or the offeror’s performance record is so     |
|(Neutral)                                   |sparse that no meaningful confidence assessment rating can be reasonably assigned.               |


d.  Cost/Price


(1) For award purposes, the Offeror’s firm-fixed price cost/price proposal will be evaluated based upon the total evaluated price proposed for
each proposal for the base year and all option periods, including option pricing for an additional six-month period, as specified in Schedule B
and related B-Tables (Attachment J-3 Cost Model) of the RFP.

The Cost/Price volume will consist of a Government-provided Attachment J-3 Cost Model in Section B which shall be utilized by the Offerors for
pricing their proposals.  With the exception of selected cells within the “B-Table” tab of Attachment J-3 Cost Model, the Cost Model is
protected by the government and offerors shall not unprotect, alter or add to the Cost Model in any manner not directed in the instructions.

The offeror shall provide a description of each solution proposed along with the basis of the proposed pricing in enough detail to allow
evaluation using one or more techniques defined in FAR 15.404. Supporting pricing data shall be made available to the Government upon request.

Offerors should not include additional technical data in Volume IV – Cost/Price to include Attachment J-3 Cost Model and any supplemental
summaries. Technical data should only be included in Volume II of the offeror’s proposal.

(2) Evaluation of the options shall not obligate the Government to exercise such options.

(3) The offeror’s cost/price proposal will be evaluated, using one or more of the techniques defined in FAR 15.404, in order to determine if it
is reasonable and complete.  Normally, price reasonableness is established through cost and price analysis techniques as described in FAR
15.404.  For additional information see FAR 31.201-3.  For a price to be complete, all solicitation requirements must be priced, figures
correctly calculated and costs presented in the Government-provided pricing model.


M003  SOLICITATION REQUIREMENTS, TERMS AND CONDITIONS


Offerors are required to meet all solicitation requirements, such as terms and conditions, representations and certifications, and
technical/management requirements, in addition to those identified as factors or subfactors.  Failure to comply with the terms and conditions of
the solicitation may result in the offeror being ineligible for award.



