<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FPBGC01-RP-09-0025.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FPBGC01-RP-09-0025.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD
2. Contract No. 3. Solicitation No.

1.

This Contract is a Rated Order Under DPAS (15 CFR 350) 4. Solicitation Type

Rating

5. Date Issued

Page of pages 1 136 6. Requisition/Purchase No.

TBD
7. Issued By

PBGC01-RP-09-0025
Code pd

Sealed Bid (IFB) 03/29/2010 X Negotiated (RFP) 8. Address Offer To (If other than item 7)

RQ-35-09-000187
Code

PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP PROCUREMENT DEPARTMENT 1200 K ST NW, STE. 1090 WASHINGTON DC 20005-4026
NOTE: In sealed bid solicitations "offer" and "offeror" mean "bid" and "bidder".

9.

Sealed offers in original and 7 copies for furnishing the supplies or services in the Schedule will be received at the place s pecified in Item 8, or if handcarried, in the depository located in See Sec L until 10:00 am (hour) Eastern Local Time on April 29, 2010.

SOLICITATION

CAUTION ­ LATE Submissions, Modifications, and Withdrawals: See Section L, Provision No. 52.214-7 or 52.215-1. All offers are subject to all terms and conditions contained in this solicitation.

10. For Information Call:

A. Name

B. Telephone No. (include area code) (NO COLLECT CALLS)

Fiorela Kvalevog
Description

(202) 326-4000 ext. 3981 kvalevog.fiorela@pbgc.gov
11. TABLE OF CONTENTS Page(s) (x) Sec Part II ­ Contract Clauses Description Page(s)

(x) Sec Part I ­ The Schedule

X X X X X X X X

A B C D E F G H

Solicitation/Contract Form Supplies or Services and Prices/Costs Description/Specs./Work Statement Packaging and Marking Inspection and Acceptance Deliveries or Performance Contract Administration Data Special Contract Requirements

1 X I Contract Clauses Part III ­ List of Documents, Exhibits and Other Attachments 2 J List of Attachments 10 Part IV ­ Representations and Instructions 49 50 Representations, Certifications and Other Statements K of Offerors 51 L Instr., Conds., and Notices to Offerors 52 M Evaluation Factors for Award 54 OFFER (Must be fully completed by offeror)

74 82 93 117 124

NOTE: Item 12 does not apply if the solicitation includes the provisions at 52.214-16, Minimum Bid Acceptance Period.

12. In compliance with the above, the undersigned agrees, if this offer is accepted within _______________ calendar days (60 calendar days unless a different period is inserted by
the offeror) from the data for receipt of offers specified above, to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item, delivered at the designated point(s), within the time specified in the schedule. 10 Calendar Days 20 Calendar Days 30 Calendar Days _____ Calendar Days 13. Discount for Prompt Payment (See Section I, Clause No. 52.232-8) % % %

%

14. Acknowledgment of Amendments
The offeror acknowledges receipt of amendments to the SOLICITATION for offerors and related documents numbered and dated.

Amendment No.

Date

Amendment No.

Date

15A. Name Code and Address of Offeror 15B. Telephone No. (Include area code)

Facility

16.

Name and Title of Person Authorized to Sign Offer (Type or print)

(212) 297-3829
19. Accepted as to Items Numbered

15C. Check if Remittance Address is difference from above. Enter such address in Schedule.

17. Signature

18. Offer Date

AWARD (To be completed by Government)
20. Amount $0.00 ) 21. Accounting and Appropriation 23. Submit Invoices to Address Shown in (4 copies unless otherwise specified) Payment Will be Made By Code Item

22. Authority for Using Other Than Full and Open Competition: 10 U.S.C. 2304 (c)( ) 41 U.S.C. 253 (c)( 24. Administered By (If other than Item 7) Code

26. Name of Contracting Officer (Type or print)

27. United States of America (Signature of Contracting Officer)

28. Award Date

IMPORTANT ­ Award will be made on this form, or on Standard Form 26, or by other authorized official written notice. 33-134 NSN 7540-01-152-8064 PREVIOUS EDITION NOT USABLE

STANDARD FORM 33 (Rev. 4-85) Prescribed by GSA ­ FAR (48 CFR) 52.214 (c)

B1. Type of Contract The contractor shall perform the required effort as an Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) contract. The agency will issue Firm Fixed-Price task orders for all Operations and Maintenance (O&M) and Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee task orders for all Development, Modernization and Enhancement (DME) work. The work under all task orders shall be performed in accordance with the Statement of Objectives (SOO). Contractors shall propose a fixed fee and shall be paid its costs for its DME work on the BCV solution. The combined total for O&M and DME work shall not exceed a maximum amount of $56 million in task order work during the five (5) year period of performance for this contract. The agency will issue a minimum amount of $100,000 per year in task order work. NAICS Code for this procurement is 541511 with Dollar Amount of $23 million. B.2. PBGC-44-001 Other Direct Costs Unless otherwise provided in individual task orders, the Contractor shall be reimbursed for the actual cost of other direct costs determined to be allowable in accordance with Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation and authorized by the Contracting Officer or his designee prior to the contractor incurring the charge. If Travel and Per Diem are authorized they will be reimbursed in accordance with the Federal Travel Regulation (FTR) in effect at the time the travel is authorized by PBGC. All travel requirements must be met using the most economical form of transportation available and must be scheduled sufficiently in advance to take advantage of offered discount rates unless waived by the Contracting Officer. You may find the FTR at http://policyworks.gov/org/main/mt/homepage/mtt/FTR/FTRHP.shtml B.3. PBGC-16-003 Ceiling Price It is anticipated that the total cost to the Government for performance of this contract shall not exceed the ceiling price set forth in Section B.1 for the Base Year Performance Period, and any Option Periods, and the contractor agrees to use its best efforts to perform the work specified in the schedule and all obligations under this contract within the ceiling price. If at any time the contractor has reason to believe that the hourly rate payments and material costs that will accrue in performing this contract in the succeeding 30 days, if added to all other payments and costs previously accrued, will exceed 85 percent of the ceiling price set forth in this clause, the contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, giving a revised estimate of the total price to the Government for performing this contract, with supporting reasons and documentation. If, at any time during the performance of this contract, the contractor has reason to believe the total price to the Government for performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the stated ceiling price the contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing, giving a revised estimate of the total price to the Government for performing this contract, with supporting reasons and documentation. If, at any time during the performance of this contract, the Government has reason to believe the work required in performing this contract will be substantially greater or less than the stated ceiling price, the Contracting Officer will so advise the contractor, giving the contractor the revised estimate of the total amount of effort to be required under this contract. The ceiling price for each contract period is shown in the clause entitled Price/Cost. The Government shall not be obligated to pay the contractor any amount in excess of the ceiling price, and the contractor will not be obligated to continue performance, if to do so would exceed the ceiling price, unless and until the Contracting Officer notifies the contractor in writing that the ceiling price has been increased and of
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 2

the new ceiling price of the contract. Once the Contracting Officer increases the ceiling price, any otherwise allowable hours and material costs incurred by the contractor which were in excess of the previous ceiling price before the increase shall be allowable to the same extent as if the hours had been expended or costs incurred after the increase in the ceiling price. B.4. Price/Cost A. Basic Cost and Price Information The Offeror's cost and pricing information will represent the Offeror's understanding of the requirements in section C and the Offeror's ability to perform those requirements successfully, efficiently and effectively. The evaluation of the Offeror's cost and pricing information will be based on an analysis of the realism and completeness of the cost data, the conformity of the cost data to the Offeror's technical data, and the proposed allocation of labor categories, labor hours and skill sets to the Contract's requirements. Therefore, the Offeror's cost and pricing information shall contain sufficient information to allow the Government to perform its analysis of the proposed cost or price of the work. All cost and pricing information should be cross-referenced to supporting documentation. If the Government considers the Offeror's proposed cost and pricing information to be unrealistic or incomplete, the Offeror may be requested to adjust its cost and pricing information accordingly. Any inconsistency between promised performance and the cost and pricing information should be explained in the cost and pricing proposal. The burden of proof for cost credibility rests with the Offeror. In regard to the Operations and Maintenance contract work, this information shall include the amounts of the basic elements of the proposed cost or price. These elements will include, as applicable, direct labor, fringe benefits, travel, materials, subcontracts, purchased parts, shipping, indirect costs and rate and profit. B. The Development, Modernization and Enhancement Contract Work - Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee (CPFF) For its contract work on the design, development and implementation of the BCV Solution, the contractor shall be reimbursed under a CPFF arrangement. To facilitate a CPFF contract, the Offeror's cost and pricing information shall include substantially more detailed information than will be required for the Operations and Maintenance work. Moreover, to the extent that the Offeror bases its information on estimates, the Offeror shall identify the estimate, provide the rationale and methodology used in developing the estimate, including any judgmental factors used in projecting future costs, identify any known data sources, and address the timing, nature and extent of any material contingencies. The Offeror shall include the following information in its cost and pricing information for the Base Year and each Option Year, as designated by each Contract Line Item (CLIN) in section B. The Offeror shall be permitted to increase labor rates by 2.5% for each Option Year. 1. The Offeror shall provide a breakdown of labor hours, rates and cost by appropriate labor category and furnish basis for estimates. For each labor category that does not
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 3

implicate a labor category occupied by Key Personnel, the Offeror shall include a brief description of the years of experience, education level and certifications appropriate to the category. 2. In providing labor costs, fringe benefits, overhead costs, general and administrative expenses each shall be indicated as separate line items, including the rate and/or method of calculating these costs. 3. Under a CPFF contract, the Offeror's profit shall be captured in the Fixed Fee, as explained in paragraph C below. 4. To the extent possible, the Offeror shall provide a time-phased breakdown, e.g., monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, of the proposed labor categories and labor hours. 5. For other direct costs, the Offeror shall indicate all other allowable costs directly allocable to the performance of the contract work. Offerors may propose other direct costs (ODC) on a reimbursement basis. 6. For indirect costs, the Offeror shall indicate the method used in computing these costs and include cost breakdowns. If costs are based on an agreement, provide a copy of the agreement. 7. For subcontractor services, provide price analyses of all subcontractor proposals and include these analyses as part of the Offeror's own price and cost submission. Subcontractor analyses should include information addressing the degree of competition and the basis for establishing the reasonableness of price. Subcontractor cost or pricing data must be accurate, complete and current, and the Offeror shall be responsible for updating a prospective subcontractor's data. 8. For the intended use of any off-the-shelf or proprietary software, the Offeror shall provide information on the Government's rights to use the software and the Offeror's intentions, if at all, for modifying the software in the performance of this Contract. Moreover, the Offeror shall represent whether it has acquired or intends to acquire sufficient rights from any third-parties, including subcontractors, in order to deliver data to the Government with the rights necessary to allow the Government access and use of that data. Lastly, the Offeror shall be prepared to represent that it has acquired, or intends to acquire, sufficient rights to use any proprietary format of any database that the Offeror may use in the performance of this Contract. 9. If the Offeror has a software license agreement pertinent in any respect to this Contract, the Offeror shall provide a copy of that agreement. Under no circumstances, however, will this Contract give any Contractor the rights to use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data, howsoever modified by the Contract, which pertains to pension plans or individual participants' benefits, or any calculation of those benefits. 10. The Offeror shall list all other costs not included in the categories above and provide the basis for pricing.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

4

C. Fixed Fee Because the Contractor will be reimbursed by the Government for its costs incurred in performing the Development, Modernization and Enhancement (DME) work under this Contract, the Contractor will earn its profit in the form of a fixed fee which the Contractor will earn through the quality of its performance of the contract work. The Offeror's proposed Fixed Fee cannot exceed 10%. 1. A Fixed Fee of _________________________ (Offeror to insert a proposed fixed fee) shall be paid to the Contractor for performance of the Development, Modernization and Enhancement (DME) work completed under this Contract in accordance with FAR 52.232-32 concerning performance-based payments. There shall be no adjustment in the amount of the total available Fixed Fee by reason of differences between any estimate of costs for performance of the DME contract work and the actual performance costs of that work. The total amount of the Fixed Fee shall be applicable to the prime Contractor and its members in a joint venture or limited liability company, partnership or subcontractors identified and considered a part of the selection and award of this Contract. 2. Based on an annual evaluation of the Contractor's overall performance, the total Fixed Fee earned for his annual evaluation period shall be as follows:

OVERALL PERFORMANCE ATTAINED OUTSTANDING ­ Exceeds performance expectations EXCELLENT ­ Meets performance expectations GOOD ­ Meets most performance expectations MARGINAL ­ Fails to meet performance expectations

AVAILABLE FEE EARNED 100% 90% 65% 0%

Performance expectations, including relative weights, and performance objectives upon which the Contractor shall be evaluated annually will be set forth in a performance evaluation and measurement plan. This plan shall be available to the Contractor after the award of this Contract. 3. If the Government exercises its right to proceed with an Option Year of contract performance, the Fixed Fee shall be subject to negotiations between the Government and the Contractor. D. The Operations and Maintenance Contract Work ­ Firm Fixed Price The Offeror shall provide the following information in regard to the costs of performing the Operations and Maintenance (O&M) requirements of this solicitation.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 5

1. In regard to each Contract Line Item (CLIN), including all option years, the Offeror shall submit fixed, fully-loaded labor rates for each labor category. The term "fully-loaded rates" shall mean an hourly rate that includes the base labor rate, fringe benefits, overhead costs, general and administrative expenses and profit. 2. To the extent possible, the Offeror shall provide a time-phased breakdown, e.g., monthly, quarterly, semi-annually, of the proposed labor categories and labor hours. 3. For other direct costs, indicate all other allowable costs directly allocable to the performance of the contract work. Offerors may propose other direct costs (ODC) on a reimbursement basis. 4. For indirect costs, indicate the method used in computing these costs and include cost breakdowns. If costs are based on an agreement, provide a copy of the agreement. 5. For subcontractor services, provide price analyses of all subcontractor proposals and include these analyses as part of the Offeror's own price and cost submission. Subcontractor analyses should include information addressing the degree of competition and the basis for establishing the reasonableness of the price. Subcontractor cost or pricing data must be accurate, complete and current, and the Offeror shall be responsible for updating a prospective subcontractor's data. 6. Under no circumstances will this Contract give any Contractor the rights to use, release, reproduce, distribute, or publish any data, howsoever modified by the Contract, which pertains to pension plans or individual participants' benefits, or any calculation of those benefits. 7. List all other costs not included in the categories above and provide the basis for pricing. NOTE: The PBGC intends to award a contract to only one Offeror. Therefore, all Offerors must address the DME and O&M work in its proposal. Offerors will not be allowed to bid only on the DME work or only on the O&M work. B.5 Right to Examine Books and Other Data The Offeror's Cost and Pricing Information shall conclude with the following statement, signed and dated by a properly authorized representative of the Offeror: This proposal reflects our estimates and/or actual costs as of this date and conforms with the instructions in FAR 15.403-5(b)(1). By submitting this proposal, we grant the Contracting Officer and authorized representatives the right to examine, at any time before award, those records, which include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and form or whether such supporting information is specifically referenced or included in the proposal as the basis for pricing, that will permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

6

B.6.

Pricing Schedule

BASE YEAR Period of Performance (12 months) 15 September 2010 ­ 14 September 2011 CLIN 0001 (DME CPFF) Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution - Planning Phase 15 September 2010 ­ 14 February 2011 $_____________ (Offeror to enter total cost) CLIN 0002 (DME CPFF) Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution - Requirement & Design Phase 15 February 2011 ­ 14 September 2011 $_____________ (Offeror to enter total cost) CLIN 0003 (O&M FFP) ACT/Archive 1 April 2011 ­ 14 September 2011 SUPPLIES/SERVICES The Contractor shall provide the services in accordance with Section C, Statement of Objective ODC QTY UNIT UNIT PRICE $ TOTAL AMOUNT $

6

MO

OPTION YEAR ONE Period of Performance (12 months) 15 September 2011 ­ 14 September 2012 CLIN 1001 (DME CPFF) Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2011 ­ 14 September 2012 $_____________ (Offeror to enter total cost) CLIN 1002 (O&M FFP) ACT/Archive/Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2011 ­ 14 September 2012 SUPPLIES/SERVICES The Contractor shall provide the services in accordance with Section C, Statement of Objective ODC QTY UNIT UNIT PRICE $ TOTAL AMOUNT $

1

MO

OPTION YEAR TWO Period of Performance (12 months) 15 September 2012 ­ 14 September 2013 CLIN 2001 (DME CPFF) Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 7

15 September 2012 ­ 14 September 2013 $_____________ (Offeror to enter cost) CLIN 2002 (O&M FFP) ACT/Archive/Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2012 ­ 14 September 2013 SUPPLIES/SERVICES The Contractor shall provide the services in accordance with Section C, Statement of Objective ODC QTY UNIT UNIT PRICE $ TOTAL AMOUNT $

1

MO

OPTION YEAR THREE Period of Performance (12 months) 15 September 2013 ­ 14 September 2014 CLIN 3001 (DME CPFF) Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2013 ­ 14 September 2014 $_____________ (Offeror to enter total cost) CLIN 3002 (O&M FFP) ACT/Archive/Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2013 ­ 14 September 2014 SUPPLIES/SERVICES The Contractor shall provide the services in accordance with Section C, Statement of Objective ODC QTY UNIT UNIT PRICE $ TOTAL AMOUNT $

1

MO

OPTION YEAR FOUR Period of Performance (12 months) 15 September 2014 ­ 14 September 2015 CLIN 4001 (DME CPFF) Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2014 ­ 14 September 2015 $_____________ (Offeror to enter cost) CLIN 4002 (O&M FFP) ACT/Archive/Benefit Calculation & Valuation Solution 15 September 2014 ­ 14 September 2015 SUPPLIES/SERVICES The Contractor shall provide the services in accordance
PBGC01-RP-09-0025

QTY 1

UNIT

UNIT PRICE

TOTAL AMOUNT

8

with Section C, Statement of Objective ODC

MO

$

$

B.7 Right to Examine Books and Other Data The Offeror's Business Proposal shall conclude with the following statement, signed and dated by a properly authorized representative of the Offeror: This proposal reflects our estimates and/or actual costs as of this date and conforms with the instructions in FAR 15.403-5(b)(1). By submitting this proposal, we grant the Contracting Officer and authorized representatives the right to examine, at any time before award, those records, which include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and form or whether such supporting information is specifically referenced or included in the proposal as the basis for pricing, that will permit an adequate evaluation of the proposed price.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

9

C. C.1

Statement of Objectives for Benefit Calculation and Valuation (BCV) Solution General Information The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation is a federal corporation created by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) of 1974. PBGC currently protects the pensions of 44 million American workers and retirees in 30,330 private single-employer and multi-employer defined benefit pension plans. PBGC encourages the continuation and maintenance of private-sector defined benefit pension plans, provides timely and uninterrupted payment of pension benefits, and strives to maintain pension insurance premiums at a minimum. Defined benefit pension plans promise to pay a specified monthly benefit at retirement, commonly based on salary and years on the job. When the sponsor of a covered plan cannot support the plan, the plan terminates and PBGC becomes its trustee. In the approximately 3,800 plans that have gone through this termination and trusteeship process, PBGC pays benefits to more than 630,000 retirees and beneficiaries and is responsible for over 550,000 additional participants who are not yet eligible to retire. Approximately 84% of retirees in terminated plans receive the full benefit amount they earned under their pension plan. The remaining 16% see an average 28% reduction in their benefits to the limits established by federal law. In the past five years, PBGC's inventory of terminated plans has grown by an average of more than 117 new plans and 110,000 new participants and beneficiaries each year. Although the work load varies each year, the highest number of participants in trusteed pension plans in a year was 206,000. PBGC's Director reports to a Board of Directors chaired by the Secretary of Labor. The secretaries of Treasury and Commerce are the other board members. PBGC is not funded by general tax revenues. Instead, PBGC is funded by insurance premiums collected from employers that sponsor insured pension plans, from assets acquired from terminated plans, and by investment income earned from those assets. The Pension Insurance Data Book lists detailed statistics on PBGC program operations and benefit protections. More information about PBGC including its goals and objectives is available at www.pbgc.gov. The Office of Information Technology (OIT) is responsible for PBGC's Information Technology program. OIT provides Information Technology (IT) and electronic communications services and support to PBGC; plans for, directs and coordinates the allocation of corporate resources for IT services, support and related activities; delivers IT business solutions driven by customer requirements; operates, maintains and safeguards PBGC business and infrastructure system; and oversees the acquisition of IT resources for PBGC.

C.2

PBGC's Unique Challenges The mission of administering a large and growing number of terminated plans makes PBGC unique in the pension industry. Out of the sheer volume of terminated plans come complex

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

10

and varied calculations of pension benefits, to which the ERISA benefit limitations are applied and plan assets are allocated to the six ERISA priority categories. These complexities are superimposed over unusual plan provisions spread across generations of predecessor plans ­ and these in turn correspond to different eras of legislation, regulation and policy affecting multiple groups of plan participants in differing ways. Ongoing changes to laws, regulations, policies and procedures further complicate the process. Additionally, the calculations of pension benefits rely on a foundation of potentially incomplete, inconsistent or missing plan documents and participant data due to bankruptcies, abandoned plans, partially developed administration systems, imminent system shutdowns or inoperable software, paper files, old record collection systems, lack of electronic data, and limited availability of knowledgeable plan personnel. Nonetheless, ERISA requires a greater degree of accuracy for final Benefit Determinations in terminated plans than for the annual valuation of ongoing plans. C.3 Work Inventory PBGC issued more than one million Benefit Determination Letters in over 2,000 plans between 1993 and 2005 using the PBGC Actuarial Calculation Toolkit (ACT) or the similar DOS-based system from which ACT evolved. In these finalized plans, administrators continue to use ACT to re-calculate actual retirement benefits as participants become eligible to retire. In addition, several hundred finalized plans use benefit calculation software that pre-dates these systems. Of the valuations that PBGC finalized in fiscal year 2006, almost all were processed in ACT, but most newly trusteed plans were started in Ariel (see "Newly Trusteed Plans" chart). As of the end of fiscal year 2007, almost all plans in estimated status were in Newly Trusteed Plans by Fiscal Year Ariel. To date, PBGC has finalized approximately 190+ Ariel plans and only a 250 few cases remain in process in Ariel. Due 200 to the difficulty of creating an Ariel 150 Benefit Estimation Tool (BET), portions of 100 50 ACT continue to be used in most Ariel 0 plans to calculate estimated benefits during 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 the period before final Benefit New Plans in ACT New Plans in Ariel Determinations are completed. Actuaries also use portions of ACT to estimate data and perform some of the more difficult intermediate calculations in Ariel plans. The results of these ACT calculations are loaded into Ariel during the Benefit Determination process in order to calculate the benefits. New plans are no longer being started in Ariel.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

11

C.4

Benefits Administration and Payment Department (BAPD) BAPD is composed of eight Trusteeship Processing Divisions (TPD) and several support divisions.

C.4.1 BAPD Organizational Structure and Roles C.4.1.1 Trusteeship Processing Divisions Each TPD has three primary categories of federal employees: 1. Auditors gather and audit all data necessary for Benefit Determinations. The data include participant data, plan documents, and information on plan assets. Auditors have primary responsibility for auditing the Participant Database. In addition, they are involved in the Benefit Determination segment of the business process until the audits are completed and they have made the information available to the assigned Actuary to calculate benefits. 2. Actuaries analyze the plan documents and participant data. Actuaries program the valuation software to calculate plan benefits, adjust benefits which are in excess of PBGC limitations, prepare the plan valuation and associated reports, and produce the final Benefit Determinations. They also provide support in the appeals process. 3. Pension Analysts (PAs) and their contractor counterparts at the Field Benefits Administration (FBA) offices carry out all the functions in the Benefit Administration segment of the business process. They also support the Benefit Determination segment by building the Participant Database with direction from the Auditor. C.4.1.2 BAPD Support Divisions: 1. In the Operations and Actuarial Systems Division (OASD), Data Experts and their contractor counterparts Data Specialists support Auditors, Actuaries, PAs and FBAs in the areas of data acquisition, building the Participant Database and benefit calculation software usage. Integrators are Actuaries who specialize in Ariel. They support the TPD Actuaries by selecting parameters in Ariel. Business User Representatives liaise between software users throughout BAPD and personnel in the Office of Information Technology (OIT). 2. The Actuarial Services Division (ASD), headed by PBGC's Chief Valuation Actuary, assists the TPDs in actuarial determinations and reviews actuarial valuations prepared within the TPDs. They create and maintain documentation surrounding technical actuarial policy and procedures. ASD personnel use the Integrated Present Value of Future Benefits System (IPVFB) to generate information for PBGC's annual statements. 3. The Retirement Services Division (RSD) ensures that retirees receive monthly payments throughout the life of each plan. After Benefit Determinations are final and the appeal period has expired, RSD reviews the plan to ensure that the TPD has performed all required activities and then accepts responsibility for Benefit
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 12

Administration from the TPD. The plan is then in the "On-going Administration" phase. RSD is also responsible for the Customer Contact Center and the Document Management Center. 4. The Operations and Policy Support Staff (OPSS) conducts reviews and analyses of insurance operations and benefit payment matters, and provides operational input in the development of corporate policy, regulations and legislative changes. OPSS maintains the BAPD Operating Policy Manual. 5. The Management Coordination Division (MCD) plans, organizes, coordinates, implements, and oversees BAPD staff activities involved in key management areas, which include audit/review response, budgeting, management controls, quality assurance, management improvement, performance management, and strategic planning. 6. The Organization Services and Staff Development (OSSD) provides organizational and staff support and oversees BAPD staff activities involved in key management support areas.

More information about the structure of PBGC is available at http://www.pbgc.gov/about/departments.html.

C.4.2 BAPD Business Process BAPD has two business processes related to the management of trusteed plans: (1) Benefit Determination and (2) Benefit Administration. C.4.2.1 Benefit Administration Functions Benefit Administration functions ensure that participants' day-to-day needs are met through the following activities: 1. Initial pension payroll setup 2. Estimated adjustment of benefits in pay-status in excess of PBGC limitations 3. Pension payroll 4. Address changes 5. Beneficiary changes 6. Benefit application and initiation of estimated benefit payments 7. Communication of final Benefit Determinations and adjustment of benefit amounts accordingly 8. Benefit application and initiation of the payment of final benefits to new retirees 9. Answering participant questions
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 13

C.4.2.2 BAPD conducts Benefit Administration functions before (while plans are in "estimated status") and after (while plans are in "final status") it has completed the Benefit Determination functions defined below. Benefit Determination functions include the process by which PBGC determines and values the benefits it will pay to participants and beneficiaries. For valuations completed between calendar years 2003 and 2007, the average time to finalize a valuation varied from 0.6 to 4.9 years with a 2.9-year participant-weighted average. In those same years, the inventory of plans for which BAPD had not completed Benefit Determinations ranged from 268 plans to 371 plans. There are four primary inputs used to calculate pension benefits: 1. Current and historical pension plan provisions, some of which may be missing 2. Current and historical participant data, which is often incomplete necessitating the use of estimated data or data that has not been verified 3. Plan assets and recoveries 4. PBGC regulations, practices and policies that govern how benefits are calculated under ERISA and the Pension Protection Act (PPA). BAPD uses these inputs for the following purposes: 1. Calculating estimated benefits, using a Benefit Estimation Tool (BET) for (1) newly eligible retirees and (2) retirees already in pay status who are receiving benefits in excess of the PBGC limitations. Before a BET is available, actuaries do these estimates manually. 2. Valuing the Plan: BAPD calculates the PBGC total liability for the plan after calculating final benefits at the individual level using the Date of Plan Termination (DOPT) and PBGC's actuarial assumptions. 3. Producing Benefit Determinations (BDs), which inform each participant or beneficiary of his/her PBGC benefit. BAPD currently completes BDs in the two to six month period after finalizing the plan valuation. 4. Re-calculating Retirement Benefits: After the Actuary finalizes the plan valuation, the recalculation tool allows administrative staff to calculate retirement benefits for deferred participants at any requested retirement date.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

14

C.4.3 Existing PBGC Benefit Calculation Systems The new BCV Solution must replicate the strengths and overcome the weaknesses of the current systems: ACT/Archive and Ariel. An understanding of the existing benefit calculation systems and the processes surrounding each helps establish a baseline for assessing the suitability of a new system. The new contractor shall prepare an effective transition to the new BCV solution based on an understanding of the existing systems: C.4.3.1 ACT The Actuarial Calculation Toolkit (ACT) is a suite of applications developed within and owned by PBGC. Calculations are done on a client computer (not a server) employing plan-specific Excel formulas that use both hard-coded PBGC-specific Excel add-ins and standard Excel functions and operators. Both input and output data are stored in a plan-specific password-protected Access databases (input/ouput data are two MS Access databases with standard structures that are slightly different) located in the user's home drive on the PBGC network. Processing a plan in ACT involves the following steps: 1. The Actuary identifies data elements described in the plan documents ("Raw Data"). 2. The Auditor collects and consolidates the raw data using Leo into a Microsoft Access database (the "External Database"). For complex situations, a Data Specialist assists the Auditor. 3. The Auditor oversees manual data entry into the External Database for data available only on paper and later audits the completed database. 4. The team performs a PRISM Reconciliation to ensure that the External Database and the PBGC Enterprise Database agree as to the plan population and basic participant data. In addition, the team performs data validations on the External Database to identify problem data. 5. The External Database is loaded into MS Access (the "Valuation Database") using a standard program. 6. The Actuary uses standard Excel functions and operators as well as PBGCspecific add-ins to perform the calculations and to estimate (using standard estimation techniques) or otherwise accommodate missing data. The results are stored in the Valuation Database. 7. Actuaries analyze and review the calculation results using customized planspecific reports designed by the Actuary. The Actuary resolves remaining data problems and documents them. 8. The Actuary performs a final PRISM Reconciliation to ensure that the Valuation Database and the Enterprise Database agree as to the plan population and basic participant data.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

15

9. Actuaries review and approve the results of the ACT calculations and the planspecific software and document them in the comprehensive Actuarial Case Report (a.k.a. "blue book"). 10. OASD archives the software so it is available to benefit administration staff (Pension Analysts and FBAs) and loads a small subset of the Valuation Database into the PBGC Enterprise Database ("ADT" process). C.4.3.2 Ariel Ariel is a parameter-based system developed, owned and maintained by an outside contractor. Access to Ariel is via an Application Service Provider (ASP) model. The system performs calculations on a server using internal, hard-coded algorithms ("core programming") based on plan-specific parameter settings and participant data. Input data and parameter settings are stored in a SQL Server database. Processing a plan in Ariel involved the following steps: 1. The Actuary identified data elements described in the plan documents ("Raw Data") as well as other required data elements necessary for Ariel to calculate benefits and begins to prepare the detailed Ariel Plan Analysis Document (APAD). 2. The Auditor collected and consolidated the raw data using Leo into a Microsoft Access database (the "External Database"). For complex situations, a Data Specialist assisted the Auditor. 3. The Auditor oversaw manual data entry into the External Database for data available only on paper and later audited the completed database. 4. The Actuary used Excel to estimate missing data (using standard estimation techniques) and performed other calculations that Ariel could not accommodate, and the Data Specialist merged the results into the External Database. 5. The team performed a PRISM Reconciliation to ensure that the External Database and the PBGC Enterprise Database agreed as to the plan population and basic participant data. In addition, the team performed data validations on the External Database to identify problem data. 6. The Data Specialist derived additional Ariel-specific data elements and tested the loading of data from the External Database into Ariel. 7. The Data Specialist filtered, consolidated and analyzed the various Ariel data load outputs and error reports so that the team could correct the External Database. 8. The Data Specialist loaded the revised External Database into Ariel. 9. With the data in Ariel, an Integrator (an Actuary specializing in Ariel) was able to select and test the Ariel parameters in accordance with the APAD. 10. The Actuary and Integrator, using pre-programmed reports and other output templates, analyzed the calculation results.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 16

11. The Actuary and Integrator identified data and integration problems, and the team made the necessary modifications to the External Database and plan parameters. Once complete, the Data Specialist re-loaded the database to Ariel. An analysis of the new calculation results may have led to further adjustments and re-loads. 12. If the team identified situations that required modifications to Ariel's core programming to accommodate the plan, and the Change Control Board (CCB) approved, members of the team prepared test scenarios and participated in User Acceptance Testing for the next scheduled release of Ariel. If the CCB did not approve the change, the Actuary completed the necessary calculations outside of Ariel. 13. Actuaries reviewed and approved the results of the Ariel integration, calculations and Benefit Statements and documented the results in the comprehensive Actuarial Case Report (a.k.a. "blue book"). 14. OASD copied the final valuation data and results into the Ariel Production Dataset and made it available to the benefit administration staff (Pension Analysts and FBAs) and loaded a small subset of the Valuation Database to the PBGC Enterprise Database ("ADT" process).

C.5

Statement of Objectives The objective of this procurement is to obtain a contractor to: 1. Design and develop a BCV solution that supports PBGC's benefit administration and determination functions by estimating pension benefits, calculating plan liabilities, producing final benefit statements and re-calculating retirement benefits accurately, rapidly and at a reasonable cost while maintaining a high level of customer satisfaction as outlined in this statement of objectives. 2. Perform Operations and Maintenance of the existing PBGC suite of legacy applications (ACT/Archive). Note: Operations and Maintenance shall not include Ariel. 3. Perform Operations and Maintenance of the new BCV Solution.

C.5.1 Design and Development of BCV Solution ­ Planning Phase After award, this contract will proceed in phases. Phase One of the contract will constitute the planning phase where the selected contractor will have a period of time to study, analyze and understand PBGC's IT and business environments as they pertain to the calculation of pension plan benefits and valuations. At the conclusion of the study period, PBGC expects to receive from the contractor three (3) different options regarding the design and development of the new BCV solution. The options could include, e.g., designing a new system or upgrading the existing systems and integrating the existing or other applications into the upgraded system.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 17

The contractor shall develop a phased development and implementation approach for each proposed option that will allow for incremental software releases to the business users to reduce overall project risk. In designing these options, the contractor shall consider the impact of following considerations on each proposed option: Note: Hereinafter the options shall be referred to as "the new BCV solution". 1. Existing benefit calculation applications as identified in this section C 2. Interfacing the new BCV solution with other agency applications 3. Migration of ACT/Archive Plans to the new BCV solution 4. Migration of Ariel Plans to the new BCV solution 5. Business and Technical requirements as listed below 6. Risks of each option 7. Time required to implement each of the options 8. Any process re-engineering of existing BAPD processes Note: Business and technical dependencies among the above considerations also shall be considered. At a time and place to be determined by the PBGC, the contractor shall present each option to PBGC for its selection and approval of one option. The presentation shall include a discussion by the contractor of its recommended phased approach for each proposed option. The phased approach shall allow for development by discrete task orders issued by PBGC as well as incremental software releases to the business users. The contractor also will discuss how each option addresses the eight considerations identified above with emphasis on the timing to develop each option and the contractor's efforts to reduce overall project risk. Based on the contractor's presentation, PBGC will select an option and inform the contractor of its selection. Once the contractor is informed of the selected option, the contractor will be allowed a specific period of time to develop and submit to the Contracting Officer the following two deliverables in regard to the selected option: 1. Project Charter 2. Project Management Plan (PMP) PBGC will approve and then subsequently review and revise the two documents as necessary in discussions with the contractor before the contractor begins drafting for each phase of the selected option the following two deliverables: 3. Detailed scope of work 4. Detailed, resource-loaded Work Breakdown Structure (WBS) compliant with ITSLCM and OMB requirements.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

18

C.5.2 Development, Modernization and Enhancements (DME) Requirements for New BCV Solution - Subsequent Phases DME services generally include the customization of existing applications that provide for new, changed or deleted functionality, features or capabilities of the application. Changes are generally requested to improve software in response to PBGC's business processes, user interface, technology advancements and industry mandates. C.5.2.1 Scope of DME Requirements The scope of the DME for the new BCV solution shall include a customized solution that would incorporate ACT/Archive, provide a base framework for modernization and major enhancements, and integration of existing legacy applications and new applications. It shall also include other activities that move the current benefit calculation systems to the target architecture necessary to support PBGC's strategic goals for customer service and the President's Management Agenda. C.5.2.1.1 Consolidation and Retirement of Legacy Applications In order to support development, modernization and enhancements, the contractor shall consider the following legacy applications and tools for consolidation and retirement in the implementation of the new BCV Solution: 1. The Actuarial Calculation Toolkit (ACT) a. The Actuarial Calculation Toolkit (ACT) is a collection of tools (listed below) used to calculate and value PBGC benefits. b. The Valuation Spreadsheet Tool (ValTool) copies data from the Valuation Database into the Valuation Spreadsheet and copies the calculation results from the spreadsheet to the database. c. The Excel Add-ins are hard-coded algorithms available within the spreadsheet. d. The Actuary uses ACT Design to design Benefit Statements e. PAs and FBAs use ACT Runtime to generate statements as participants retire. f. The Actuary uses the DOPT Report System (DRS) to design customized Listings. 2. Archive The Archive Access program is the permanent storage location of BAPD's valuation-related electronic files to include the benefit statement and recalculation program, memos, listings, actuarial valuation spreadsheets, standalone spreadsheets, etc. This program is accessed by Field Benefit Administration staff for the primary purpose of generating benefit statements and recalculations for plan participants. The "Archive Utility" program is the tool used by OASD to manage the archive (i.e. store the abovementioned
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 19

electronic files in the Archive Access program and grant access to the Field Benefit Administration staff via the OASD developed MS-Access based "FBA Transfer Tool"). More than 2,000 archived benefit recalculation programs (mostly ACT cases with a small number of Pre-ACT cases) must eventually be migrated to the new BCV solution. PBGC is open to alternatives proposed by the contractor regarding the disposition of the software through which users gain access to these programs (Archive Access and Archive Utility). 3. Payment Adjustment Calculation System (PACS) and Batch PACS PACS is a web-based calculation tool with no interfaces to other PBGC systems. BAPD uses PACS to determine (1) the refund owed to underpaid participants, (2) the amount PBGC will recoup from overpaid participants, and (3) benefits payable under PBGC optional forms. PACS generates Benefit Statements and a Benefits Determination Letter (BDL) through the eALG application. BAPD staff images BDLs through the IPS Viewer. PBGC subsequently developed "Batch PACS" to perform these calculations described above for large groups of participants. The primary input to Batch PACS is ledger data from both the PBGC Enterprise Database and (more problematically) the payment system(s) used by the prior paying agent between the Date of Plan Termination and the Plan Assumption (DOPT) date. OASD developed the ad hoc, MS-Access based "Batch PACS Data Load Tool" to partially automate the transfer of this data into the PACS database. 4. Leo OASD developed the MS Access-based Leo tool to facilitate building the External Databases. Data Specialists load data from Outside Databases by either copying /pasting it from Excel or by creating MS Access queries. Other BAPD staff manually enters the remaining data through a data interface customized to the plan. Leo keeps a history of data changes, including a record of who made the changes. Auditors can easily tailor Leo to display only data elements relevant to a given plan, e.g. define a sample population and define filters to display only certain types of customers. Leo interacts directly with the PBGC Enterprise Database, allowing users to download participant and beneficiary information. It generates reports used in the PRISM Reconciliation process and performs validations that either prevent users from entering inconsistent data or identifies errors that must be corrected before the data can be loaded into Ariel or ACT. 5. Tools Related to Loading Valuation Data to the Enterprise Database OASD developed several ad hoc tools for analyzing and formatting data from the Valuation Database in preparation for loading it into the Enterprise
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 20

Database via the Spectrum/Genesis suite of tools (described below). The Plan MS Access Conversion Tool reformats data extracted from Ariel. For both ACT and Ariel cases, ADTv5 performs data validations and then formats the data for Spectrum/Genesis. Numerous ad hoc Software Closeout Queries perform other data reformatting and validation functions prior to the Spectrum/Genesis load. The new BCV solution shall replace all of the aforementioned tools. 6. Other OASD Tools include: a. Pre-Trusteeship Data Viewer (PDV) - For some large cases, BAPD staff involved in building External Databases use the PDV to view data from Outside Databases in approximately its original format. b. The New Present Value Factor (NPVF) Calculator enables Actuaries to perform certain individual calculations as an alternative to completing such calculations in Excel using ACT's Excel Add-ins. c. The Aggregate Maximum Report identifies participants who are in more than one PBGC plan. The Preliminary BDL Report identifies which type of Benefit Determination Letter each participant should receive based on the valuation results. The Data Dictionary Repository stores information about all Ariel data elements and enables users to generate customized data element lists for individual plans.

C.5.2.1.2 Integrate and/or Interface with Applications In regard to its DME activities, the contractor shall consider integrating and/or interfacing the new BCV solution with the following applications: 1. Image Processing System (IPS) The Image Processing System is a document imaging and management system for both plan and participant documents and information. 2. Spectrum The Spectrum application contains the participants benefit data and allows the user to put participants into pay. The new BCV solution must accommodate the reconciliation process internally, thus relieving BAPD of the need to use a separate application. Spectrum also contains utilities for loading external data (basic customer data, payment data, and valuation results).

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

21

3. E-Automated Letter Generation System (eALG) eALG generates letters (including BDLs) for a participant or a group of participants and merges data obtained from the PBGC Enterprise Database into the letters. OASD imports Benefit Statements (produced by the existing benefit calculation system) into eALG so the statements can be included as attachments to some BDLs and other letters. 4. My Pension Benefit Account (MYPBA) My PBA is a secure web-based applications that provides participants the ability to update personal data, banking or tax information, designate a beneficiary, and (for a small number of Ariel plans) generate benefit estimates. My PBA interfaces with Ariel common services as follows: a. The Ariel Query common service to retrieve benefit and plan related information including allowable retirement dates and beneficiaries. b. The Ariel Retirement Estimate common service to retrieve retirement statements. 5. Customer Relationship Management (CRM) CRM manages telephone, paper mail, e-mail, fax, or walk-in interactions with external customers. For benefit calculations, its role is limited. The CRM user logs a request for a benefit calculation into the system and forwards it to the FBA office for processing. The FBA personnel use the existing benefit calculation software to perform the calculation and provide the information to the participant. 6. Integrated Present Value of Future Benefits System (IPVFB) IPVFB is the valuation system used as the basis for PBGC's financial reporting that determines the actuarial present value of future benefits (PVFB) and expenses that PBGC may be obligated to pay. For finalized plans that are "IPV-ready," the system values future benefits on a participant-byparticipant (seriatim) basis. All other plans are valued on a plan-by-plan (non-seriatim) basis. PBGC's Annual Report includes these results. Since IPVFB obtains most of its data from the PBGC Enterprise Database, there is no direct interface between IPVFB and the existing benefit calculation system. However, critical data (including certain valuation results) must be transferred from the benefit calculation system to the Enterprise Database to enable IPVFB to accurately value liabilities. 7. Artis Artis is an application that tracks and manages appeals, extension requests, and related correspondence. This application queries the Genesis database to capture existing information about the Participant.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 22

8. PBGC Enterprise Database or Enterprise Database This database encompasses the collection of software including PRISM, Spectrum, Genesis, GENOWN and SPECOWN. Informal PBGC lingo often uses these terms interchangeably. PRISM is the suite of applications used to pay benefits and process other life events (deaths, marriages, etc). PBGC is in the process of replacing PRISM with Spectrum. Genesis is the Oracle database containing PRISM and Spectrum data. GENOWN and SPECOWN are names of Oracle instances within Genesis. The Enterprise Database does NOT include either ACT's or Ariel's database.

C.5.2.1.3 Data Migration and/or Conversion to the new BCV Solution 1. ACT Conversion The contractor shall develop a plan for converting PBGC's case inventory from the current benefit calculation and valuation software into the new BCV solution. The contractor also shall convert pension plans from ACT, Archive and Pre-ACT (DOS Based Software) into the new BCV solution and maintain user profiles. The plan for converting ACT cases must address (1) several technology iterations (2) conversion of participant data (3) conversion of actuarial calculations (4) modernizing macros without altering prior calculation results (5) reports and (6) benefit recalculation tools. Challenges involved in the ACT conversion process include processing a large number of cases (approximately 3,000), the current variations in technology, a tolerance level for accuracy, and the requirement for an audit trail. 2. Ariel Conversion The contractor shall address the conversion of participant data and reprogramming actuarial calculations presently existing in Ariel. Challenges involved in the Ariel conversion process include diminishing Ariel expertise within PBGC, large, complicated plans such as Bethlehem Steel and Kaiser which presently exist in Ariel, repeating the valuation results of the plans in Ariel, the tolerance levels for accuracy, and the requirement for an audit trail. C.5.3 Business Requirements for the New BCV Solution C.5.3.1 Actuarial Requirements of Pension Plans The new BCV solution shall be both standardized and flexible. C.5.3.1.1 Standardization The new BCV solution shall accommodate common plan provisions and standard PBGC calculations with repeatable algorithms and methods to ensure consistency across different pension plans. Contractors shall explain the extent to which they
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 23

expect their proposed solution to handle issues using standard, hard-coded algorithms. Such issues include but are not limited to the considerations set forth below and complexities due to various combinations of the following considerations: 1. The new BCV solution shall accommodate complex calculations including: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Industry-specific provisions, e.g., steel, automobile, airlines Free Surviving Spouse Benefits (FSSB) Cash balance and hybrid plans Non-level benefits and supplements Grow-ins for ongoing employers Employee contributions (mandatory and voluntary) Death and disability benefits Transfers between plans Offsets and partially purchased annuities Eligibility requirements Top-heavy plans

2. The new BCV solution shall accommodate the following factors requiring adjustments to benefit calculations: ˇ ˇ Prior distributions PBGC Guarantee Limits
ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Accrued at Normal Limitation Maximum Guarantable Benefit Phase-ins Majority Owner benefits Aggregate Limit of Benefits Payable by PBGC ("Aggregate Maximum")

ˇ ˇ

ERISA section 4044 asset allocation and section 4022(c) allocation Determination of ERISA 4044 Priority Category (PC)3 and PC6 eligibility and calculation of PC3 and PC6 benefits

3. Estimation of missing data using standard techniques

C.5.3.1.2 Flexibility The new BCV solution shall have a significant degree of flexibility to allow such requirements as plan-specific ad hoc calculations for unusual plan provisions,
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 24

complex contingencies, periods of procedural flux, poor data quality, and legislative changes. Contractors shall propose methods for measuring the degree to which Actuaries use non-standard techniques on an ongoing plan-by-plan basis. Areas where flexibility is required by the contractor include, but are not limited to, the following considerations: 1. Provide standard algorithms for accommodating Pension Protection Act (PPA) provisions while providing Actuaries the flexibility to respond immediately to future changes in the law without waiting for PBGC to provide updated software with the new standard calculations. 2. Provide the ability to designate logical groups of participants (e.g. retiree, deferred vested, cutbacks, ERISA section 417(e) lump sum receivers, etc.) and handle these groups separately for valuation and reporting purposes 3. Accommodate certain administrative issues such as: ˇ ˇ Variations in plan practice Qualified Domestic Relations Orders (QDRO)

C.5.3.2

Benefit Calculations and Valuations The new BCV solution shall provide the following:

C.5.3.2.1 Consistency across plans The new BCV solution shall provide controls to ensure that standard calculations such as common plan provisions or PBGC limitations yield the same result from one plan to the next. C.5.3.2.2 Consistency across software releases The new BCV solution shall allow updates to the software (e.g., as laws, regulations, and policies change) without impacting calculation results in previously finalized plans. C.5.3.2.3 Data Requirements The new BCV solution shall minimize the need for outside data manipulation, simplify the data loading process and require minimal data entry when recalculating benefits in finalized plans. C.5.3.3 Performance Requirements The new BCV solution shall meet the following performance requirements for a Simple, Medium, and Complex plan:
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 25

1. Valuation Run Time for a Simple Valuation per 100 participants: 22.5 seconds 2. Valuation Run Time of a Medium Valuation per 100 participants: 45 seconds 3. Valuation Run Time for a Complex Valuation per 100 participants: 67.5 seconds where the plan complexity is defined below: ˇ Simple plan - one that has a relatively simple benefit formula based on a benefit rate or average salary. No (or very few) participants are affected by PBGC limitations and the plan does not allow Employee Contributions. Medium plan - one where the formula is some what complex, has simple offsets, or includes a temporary supplement. The plan contains participants who are affected by PBGC limitations (e.g. Accrued at Normal, Maximum Guarantable Benefit, Phasein, and Majority Owner benefits). Complex plan - one that cannot be classified as a Simple or Medium plan. Complex plans may be Steel or Airline plans wherein many participants are affected by PBGC limitations. Additionally, the complex plans may include complex offsets, transfers, FSSBs, varying annuity forms under different plan amendments, Employee Contributions, Cash Balance amounts, or Social Security Level Income Options.

ˇ

ˇ

C.5.3.4

Reporting Requirements

C.5.3.4.1 Plan Specific Reporting Requirements The new BCV solution shall enable the user to develop, run, and verify ad hoc reports as well as standard and customized reports. Those reports include but are not limited to the following reports identified below: 1. The new BCV solution shall have the ability to maintain audit logs that record data loads and subsequent changes to the data. 2. The new BCV solution shall provide a mechanism enabling the Actuary to easily query any input and calculated data from the internal database for various analyses. C.5.3.4.2 Standardized Reporting Requirements The new BCV solution shall allow standardized reporting of the following: 1. Aggregate Maximum Reports 2. Preliminary BDL Reports 3. Business Management reports showing aggregate data including (but not limited to):
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 26

ˇ

Plan count by status (Plan Setup Complete, Benefit Estimation Tool Complete, Plan Rules Complete, Participant Data Complete, etc.), industry and TPD assigned Participant counts by status, benefit form, benefit adjustments and benefit amounts

ˇ

4. Statistical reports showing participant status by age, salary level, region, etc. 5. Plan-specific reports on relevant dates, plan status, locations, participant counts, etc. C.5.3.4.3 Customizable Reporting Requirements The new BCV solutions shall include the following requirements: 1. Reports shall be producible in various formats and levels of detail in order to meet internal and external customer service needs. These reports shall be sufficient to support an efficient and timely review of Benefit Determinations in BAPD. 2. Reports for internal customers shall include plan-specific participant listings that PBGC Actuaries can easily customize to display any or all input data and intermediate steps of the benefit calculations in any order desired, tailored to any customizable group (e.g., retirees, deferred vested, participants affected by Accrued at Normal benefit limitations, substantial/majority owners, participants with compensation in excess of IRC section 401(a)17, location) with customizable column headings to display formulas and descriptions. 3. Reports for external customers shall include customizable benefit statements and worksheets tailored to different customizable groups within the plan for distribution to plan members. The Actuary must have the flexibility to easily include any data element in the Valuation Database and any intermediate step in the benefit calculation in any order desired. 4. Reports for agency managers shall include functions to query the system to summarize data across plan data and participant data) and across TPDs. The information provided for the reports would be used for status reporting, load balancing, planning, analysis and decision making. C.5.3.5 Data Handling The new BCV solution shall allow for electronic data manipulation and/or analysis before the data is loaded into the BCV solution. A minimum of data elements beyond Raw Data and easily obtained non-Raw elements are required for use. Missing key data elements shall not impede the loading of data into the new BCV system. Inconsistencies in the Raw Data such as salaries before date of hire or after date of termination or dates out of order (e.g. birth, hire, retirement, death) should not impede the loading of data into the new BCV system. The new BCV solution shall have a mechanism that identifies inconsistencies and other deficiencies and facilitates correction by users. The new BCV solution shall:
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 27

1. Allow PBGC personnel to easily load electronic data into the system's internal database with reports that clearly identify what was and was not successfully loaded and any issues that impeded the load. 2. Allow Auditors and benefit administrators to perform manual data entry efficiently. 3. Automatically re-calculate any internal system-specific data elements, and any other data elements that are dependent upon it, and re-assign participants to the appropriate segment of the population if that categorization has changed. 4. Save the data that end users enter in order to perform benefit calculations in finalized plans. This new data shall not affect the results shown on benefit statements that were included as attachments to BDLs for previously finalized plans. C.5.3.6 Ease of Use The BCV solution shall be user friendly, allowing logical, easy to navigate application interfaces and reports enabling: 1. Actuaries to readily: a. Create a Benefit Estimate Tool (BET) even when participant data is unavailable (ideally within a few weeks of trusteeship) that can be easily and frequently be updated with new data or provisions. b. Easily correct data or add any additional data elements at any time c. Correctly calculate benefits and valuations d. View the results of calculations within the graphical user interface e. Review the calculations efficiently via easily customizable plan-specific listings. 2. Auditors, Pension Analysts and FBA staff to easily: a. Correct data or enter new data b. Process retirements: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Either before or after final Benefit Determinations Without having to re-enter data in a different system (e.g. SPECTRUM) Without having to re-enter the same data at a later time With minimal data entry beyond retirement date, benefit form and spouse birth date

3. Data Experts and Specialists to readily: a. Discover and correct data problems b. Successfully load customer records even when data are missing or inconsistent. 4. System Administrators to update mortality and other tables and perform other system administration activities.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 28

5. New employees to develop their skills efficiently. C.5.3.7 Business Process Re-Engineering PBGC will redesign the processes that the software supports as part of the requirements definition for the various system components. PBGC generally will apply Lean Enterprise methodology coupled with focused Kaizen events (over a period of days) to arrive at improved processes. It is likely that the contractor will need to attend these events to learn of the processes as well as to document them for requirements. The contractor will not be responsible for facilitation of the re-engineering. C.5.4. Technical Requirements for the New BCV Solution C.5.4.1 General Technical Requirements The contractor shall adhere to the following general technical requirements for the new BCV Solution: 1. Perform and complete project initiation, planning, analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of any modernization, enhancements and requirements to the existing benefit calculation system 2. Schedule and coordinate the development, modernization and enhancement releases with the appropriate teams 3. Deliver the releases on time and within budget 4. Deploy quality software releases in production and minimize downtime in production due to Quality issues 5. Coordinate extensively with all involved groups such as OIT, BAPD, Chief Actuary, ASD, Information System Security Officer (ISSO), and other applicable divisions and systems within PBGC and the Federal Government to identify all impacts prior to project implementation 6. Work in partnership with OIT in anticipating and responding to future initiatives and technology evolutions that will enable OIT to respond to customers and provide an efficient and robust system 7. Add and/or convert new pension plans into the new benefit calculation valuation and calculation solution and maintain user profiles C.5.4.2 Specific Technical Requirements

C.5.4.2.1 Enterprise Architecture The Enterprise Architecture & IT Portfolio Division currently maintains Enterprise Architecture Planning Resources (EAPR) and provides IT architecture guidance. This guidance incorporates technology, business and regulatory drivers and provides a unified vision of the future and related architectural standards. For instance, Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is specified as part of the target architecture in the EA Blueprint.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 29

The EAPR is comprised of the architectural tenets, technical standards and blueprints as well as a number of published guidelines and best practices that support the enterprise architecture. Coupled with ongoing segment architecture developed using the PBGC Method for Business Transformation, the EAPR is a key driver in establishing the target (to-be) architecture, providing rules and standards and systems life cycle information, providing a strategy that will enable the agency to support its current state, and acting as the roadmap for transition to the target environment. The EAPR represents "living" guidance that undergoes continuous review and update to reflect new corporate initiatives and technology solutions. The contractor shall adhere to and comply with the current and future EA guidelines and standards in the Enterprise Architecture (EA) Blueprint. The current EA blueprint can be found at: http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/enterprisearchitectureblueprint.pdf. The technical standards guide the transition to the target environment. The blueprints guide the transition for significant initiatives. PBGC updates the resources frequently. The contractor shall perform a periodic evaluation of technological components of the solution to alleviate the risk of the solution becoming technologically obsolete. The contractor shall provide recommendations and alternatives to update the technological components to PBGC along with feasible timelines. C.5.4.2.2 Information Technology Solutions Life Cycle Methodology (ITSLCM) The PBGC Office of Information Technology's ITSLCM is an avenue to provide a consistent approach to acquiring, developing, enhancing and maintaining solutions. It is a component of the overall IT investment Framework including Enterprise Architecture, Security, and Capital Planning. The ITSLCM provides increased emphasis on and understanding of, Corporate IT project portfolio, fostering greater accountability for the information systems and technology projects through decision points that heighten project managing, developing, maintaining, and decommissioning solutions. The contractor shall adhere to and comply with ITSLCM directive policy, processes and any future changes for system acquisition, development, enhancement and maintenance projects (including infrastructure). The ITSLCM document can be located at: http://www.pbgc.gov/about/header-footer-general/content/page15169.html.

C.5.4.2.3 Support for Corporate Information Technology Initiatives The contractor shall be required, from time-to-time, to participate in corporate-wide IT initiatives. Recent examples of such initiatives include Oracle upgrade testing, infrastructure upgrade testing, Continuity of Operations (COOP) testing, Section 508 testing and EA group participation.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

30

C.5.4.2.4 Comply with Government Regulations and Standards The contractor shall be responsible for compliance with applicable Federal Government regulations and standards for software development and maintenance. The contractor shall be in compliance with, but not limited to, the following: 1. Office of Management and the Budget (OMB) guidelines for system security and internal controls, the Government Paperwork Elimination Act, standards from the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST), local PBGC standards, and any other applicable standards. 2. Section 508 of the Rehabilitation ACT of 1973, which requires federal agencies to make their electronic, and information technology accessible to individuals with disabilities. 3. All relevant Federal internal control standards; for example, the BCV solution shall be in compliance with OMB circulars A-123, A-127, and A130, the Computer Security Act of 1987, the Privacy Act of 1974, government auditing standards, PBGC specific security standards, Management Coordination Division (MCD) requirements and Enterprise Architecture Planning Committee requirements. C.5.4.2.5 Integrated Project Team (IPT) The contractor shall be an active member of the Integrated Project Team (IPT). The IPT is comprised of members of the project team, Process and Product Quality Assurance (PPQA) contractor team, other impacted project teams, PBGC functional staff and users as required. The contractor shall attend weekly status meetings to review the project progress. Frequency of the meetings may change due to emergent need and issue resolution. The contractor shall present information regarding accomplishments over the previous period, plans for the next period, any issues or action items, deviations in schedule of effort, status of critical dependencies, risk status, and other areas of note. The contractor shall reflect work to be performed by members of the IPT in their project schedules.

C.5.4.2.6 PBGC's OIT Process and Product Quality Assurance (PPQA) The contractor shall follow PBGC's OIT Process and Product Quality Assurance process for all new and existing Information Systems and IT projects. PPQA is a supporting component of the ITSLCM methodology and provides a means to monitor and audit the adherence of a project to the development, delivery, and maintenance processes of the ITSLCM. In addition, the PPQA process is used to ensure ITSLCM processes are followed and ensure the quality of artifacts that will be delivered in accordance with the ITSLCM tailoring document.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

31

C.5.4.2.7 Project Management The contractor shall complete the following project management tasks: a. Develop and manage project schedules for all approved project initiatives. The Project Manager, COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor shall review and approve the project schedule. The contractor shall follow the ITSLCM process in support of developing the schedule and ensure the schedule includes the deliverables, milestones, planned durations for each task, project start and end dates, resources, work breakdown structure of activities and other specific information needed to track the projects. b. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 300 activities ­ provide support in creating/managing OMB-300 and supporting artifacts such as program charter, program management plan, requirements document, security artifacts, risk management plan, risk log, acquisition plan, alternatives analysis document c. Develop and deliver project documents required by the ITSLCM process for each approved project. d. Develop an impact assessment of each project and coordinate with the appropriate groups and teams, as necessary, in order to complete the impact assessment. e. Adhere to all established and future OIT Project Management processes, in accordance and or in support of ITSLCM. f. Follow the PBGC established reporting requirements as listed below: 1. Earned Value Management Report The contractor shall use the Primavera Tool to track and report Earned Value on all projects meeting the Earned Value threshold defined by OIT. The contractor shall comply with the National Standards Institute (ANSI)/Electronic Industries Alliance (EIA) 748-A-1998 (R2002) Earned Value Management System guidelines on all projects as required by OMB and OIT. 2. Project Status Reporting The contractor shall, at a minimum, meet once a week with the Project Manager, COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor to discuss activities, risks, issues, and staff utilization for each reporting period. The contractor shall provide the following: a. Provide oversight and reporting of the multiple projects/initiatives including cost/schedule performance within Benefit Calculation investment. b. Prepare Program Level reports, SCM briefings, and quarterly prioritization reports.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 32

c.

Project Status--provide a status on all the projects on a weekly (or as requested) basis to the COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor.

d. Weekly Status Reports--Deliver weekly status reports to the Project Manager, COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor containing information on accomplishments for the week, risks, issues, and plans for the next week. e. Meetings and Meeting Minutes ˇ ˇ Participate in meetings, as requested by the Project Manager, COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor. Provide updates on projects, schedules, discuss risks and mitigation strategies, and provide explanations of any cost over-runs and schedule slippages. Develop and distribute meeting agendas Prepare presentations and artifacts and deliver management briefings as requested by the COTR and Project Manager. Develop meeting minutes from any meetings attended by the contractor, which will include information regarding the discussion, decisions made, risks, action items, and next steps. Route meeting minutes electronically via PBGC email to all attendees for review within forty-eight (48) hours after the meeting and after being approved and accepted as the official PBGC' minutes.

ˇ ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

3. Financial Reporting The contractor shall deliver: a. Financial Reports--deliver a financial report, to the Contract Specialist and the COTR, by the fifteenth day of the month, for the previous month. The report will contain the following. ˇ ˇ ˇ Project ­hours - Project-hours expended during the reporting period, actual vs. planned, and a cumulative total. Funds - Funds expended during the reporting period, actual vs. planned and a cumulative total. Estimate to Completion - Project-hours and funding required for providing services through the completion of the current period by project.
33

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

b. Invoices - Deliver invoices, to the Contract Specialist and the COTR by the twentieth (20th) day of the month for the previous month work. 4. Other Reporting The contractor shall maintain and provide the following: a. Assist in developing management reports and analysis, within the scope of this contract. b. Sign In Sheets--Record personnel working hours on the contract by maintaining daily logs for hours worked. These documents, as required, shall also accompany the invoices for each task order. c. Personnel Roster--Provide/maintain a roster of all contractor personnel, equipment and materials under contractor control and notify both the Contract Specialist and the COTR, in writing, of any additions, deletions or changes within one week after the change(s). d. OIT Contractor Staffing Report - Provide a monthly contractor staffing report to the COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor that includes the following: contract number, contractor contract name, funding source, contractor employee primary user identification number assigned by PBGC, contractor employee last and first name, position title, site location address, off site, office/cubicle number, office phone number, PBGC group supporting, primary project number, secondary project number, if applicable, start date, termination/separation date and total number of contractors. In addition, the contractor shall provide: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ List of the planned new hires within next 30 days List of employees terminated within past 30 days List of employees hired within 30 days The names and contact information (i.e. phone number, email address, mailing address) of the contractor security representative The name and contact information (i.e. phone number, email address, mailing address) of the contract project manager.

ˇ

e. Software Development Report - Provide monthly cost for work specific to development, modernization and enhancements, production support and steady state costs. Ensure these cost are in line with the monthly invoice totals. f. Expense Accrual Report - Provide on a quarterly basis a report for any services performed but not invoiced for a specific period identified by COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 34

g. Access Reports ­ Provide/Maintain software/application/database access levels for each contractor on the team and provide it on a monthly basis to the COTR. h. COOP Calling Tree ­ Provide/Maintain COOP calling tree structure and provide monthly updates or as required to the COTR. i. Software Library Reports ­ Maintain detail list of all the software used as part of the BCV solution. j. Software License Report - Provide an annual report to the COTR on what licenses need to be renewed, the date the license need to be renewed, and what software must be updated. The annual report shall also include cost estimates for license renewals and updates. k. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) 300 Reports and Business Cases ­ Provide assistance in developing and reporting information for OMB reports and business cases for the projects as requested. C.5.4.2.8 Technical Writing/Documentation During the life of a system, many changes will be made to improve the operational efficiency of the system. It is critical to document the changes throughout the system lifecycle so that the development teams and users can have reference materials to reflect the changes. The contractor shall do the following in order to maintain and provide documentation of any changes to the system: 1. Add and update the technical, user, test plans, test results, configuration management and change control documentation for the new BCV solution. Documents will be added or updated as new or enhanced software application releases are implemented and as procedures are modified due to those releases. The actual documents added or updated will be based on the nature of the work and the schedule and priorities established by the Project Manager, COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor. 2. Prepare and deliver narrative documentation such as requirements and technical specifications, test plans, test results, report code, issue tracking (e.g., Problem Resolution Report) and spreadsheet analyses to PBGC in electronic form using the PBGC standard or other software designated by the Project Manager, COTR and/or the designated Contract Monitor. 3. Develop and prepare documentation, including but not limited to, functional and data requirements, functional and technical specifications, flowcharts (e.g., functional decomposition and data flow diagrams), system design, users' manuals, and code.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

35

4. Develop and produce technical documentation specified and approved by the Project Manager, COTR and/or the designated Contract Monitor for each new and modified change for each release. 5. Develop user and technical documentation, reference materials (on-line and/or paper), demonstration materials, and/or Web user help files. The contractor shall conduct or support demonstrations, training sessions (e.g., train technical staff and internal and external users), develop and provide training materials, and develop and utilize training aids (e.g., on-line training screens and information). 6. Deliver appropriate online help files, user manuals and training guides with releases. 7. Provide access to all the artifacts produced to integrated teams in PBGC. C.5.4.2.9 Configuration Management The contractor shall adhere to and comply with PBGC Configuration Management processes and procedures and use PBGC's Configuration Management tools for development. The contractor is responsible for configuration management of all development configuration items, including hardware, system software, application software (both source and executable code), data files, stored procedures, and documentation acquired, developed or modified within the scope of this contract. More specifically, the contractor shall: 1. Use PBGC configuration management tool for development and tracking all software defects ­Serena PVCS Tracker or any future tool required by the PBGC. 2. Adhere to all published PBGC configuration management procedures and assign a Configuration Manager to participate in the Configuration Management PVCS User Group sessions. 3. Develop Configuration Management Plans as necessary, per PBGC ITSLCM, to identify project Configuration Management procedures. Where detailed procedures have not been provided, the contractor is expected to implement a responsible configuration management program that includes: establishment of baselines of source code, documentation, formal methods of initiating and tracking changes to the configuration items, procedures for storing, accessing, and releasing software, and standards and procedures to ensure that configuration documentation is current and accurate. The PBGC uses the capabilities of the migration model in Serena PVCS to transition code from development, to ITC, to staging, to production and COOP, as applicable. 4. Present defects at the Configuration Control Board (CCB) Meetings for prioritization so that the defects can be scheduled into approved software releases. The contractor's Serena PVCS repository is subject to audit at any given time. Results of the audit may require the contractor to fix deficiencies in their repository in a given period.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

36

C.5.4.2.10 Change Management PBGC has an established Change Management process. The contractor shall do the following: 1. Take responsibility for change management of all production configuration items, including hardware, system software, application software (both source and executable code), data files, stored procedures, and documentation acquired, developed or modified within the scope of this contract. 2. Use PBGC's change management tool for production ­ Peregrine Service Center Change Management. 3. Adhere to the PBGC Change Management Policy, Process and Procedures Document and assign designated personnel to participate in the weekly Change Management meetings. C.5.4.2.11 Training An important part of a system's success is whether the end-users can use the new BCV solution effectively. End-users shall be trained on the new BCV solution so that they can complete their job functions in a timely and efficient manner. The contractor shall do the following: 1. Develop and perform timely, flexible, and cost effective training to ensure that users are trained successfully in using the application that supports their daily operations. Tailor the initial and subsequent training to efficiently meet specific user needs and conduct the training as necessary to support new users and meet ad hoc customer requests. 2. Support ongoing training of users on the new BCV solution releases. Develop training materials to help users quickly become familiar with the changes to the system. Develop job aids (quick reference guides), training labs, step-by-step procedures, and on-line tutorials that can be used to train the users on new changes in the software releases. 3. Maintain training documents on a BCV solution Portal and other agreed upon specific locations so that the users have ongoing access to the training materials. 4. Deliver training plans and schedules prior to a software release implementation and train users in a timely manner to coincide with the rollout of the software changes into the production environment. 5. Work with other teams to address training needs and issues. Facilitate meetings with other application teams to develop strategies to inform the users of the changes that are being implemented for the BCV solution. Provide training assistance to teams that are impacted by the BCV solution releases. 6. Assess user-training needs and develop appropriate training material in order to support the user training needs.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

37

7. Coordinate with business representatives, PBGC training professionals and other key stakeholders to include OPSS, to recommend and share best training approaches and practices to develop training materials and/or tools and classroom or online instruction in support of the BCV solution. 8. Continue to evaluate emerging technology for efficient training solutions for PBGC and its users. 9. All training developed or delivered by the contractor shall reflect knowledge of, and skill/experience in, applying the principles of adult-learning, instructional systems design, and various instructional design models. 10. All training developed or delivered by the contractor shall meet all applicable PBGC Training directives and other PBGC training program requirements and allow for customization as training policies and procedures are modified. C.5.4.2.12 Testing In order to deliver quality solutions and software releases, the contractor shall perform testing prior to software going into production. The contractor shall, at a minimum, select and perform the appropriate testing for each project initiative. Examples of types of testing include but are not limited to unit testing, system testing, functional testing, integration testing, performance testing, load testing, parallel testing, regression testing, end-to-end testing, user testing, user acceptance testing and security testing. In addition, the contractor shall do the following: 1. Perform testing on all project initiatives to ensure the quality of the solutions and software releases delivered. 2. Work with the appropriate teams, groups and users to coordinate testing support and assist application users in User Acceptance Testing of the BCV solution including but not limited to the preparation of test plans, test cases/scripts, test results, and the use of automated testing tools 3. Develop and maintain operational system documentation, and procedures. 4. Coordinate with production groups for migration of the applications to production. 5. Use automated testing tools such as WinRunner, Test Director, and Load Runner in order to assist in testing effectively and efficiently. 6. Use PVCS Tracker for tracking and reporting defects during testing. 7. Develop testing artifacts such as test plan, test cases, test scripts, test scenarios and others as identified in ITSLCM. 8. Adhere to OIT established testing policies and procedures and ITSLCM process on delivering quality solutions and releases to the users. 9. Recommend and propose additional testing solutions, processes, methods and standards that do not conflict with the current OIT processes, for approval by the COTR and/or designated Contract Monitor.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 38

10. Use the test environments provided below to deliver high quality software to PBGC users. OIT has established software environments that allow the application to go through the process of development and testing prior to production to ensure high quality software end products to PBGC customers. PBGC currently has the following environments: Test Center Operations (Common Development Environment ­ Team Specific (CDE-T), Common Development Environment ­ Integrated (CDE-I), Integration Testing Center (ITC)) and alternative sites (to support COOP). 11. Maintain, coordinate and provide technical assistance and support for the testing and upgrading of all standard instances (e.g., Development) at all locations, including the Test Center Operations ((Common Development Environment ­ Team Specific (CDE-T), Common Development Environment ­ Integrated (CDE-I), Integration Testing Center (ITC))and alternative sites (to support COOP). 12. Adhere to any new and future changes to the current PBGC environments and testing policies and procedures.

C.5.4.2.13 Tool Set 1. Primavera's Project Tracking Tool The Primavera project-tracking tool was implemented in an effort to provide accurate and timely information on projects so that management and other users could make informed decisions. The tool will be used in support of the ITSLCM process. The contractor shall use the Primavera project tool to do the following: a. Develop, track, report and manage the project schedule; provide and report on specific project information requested by the Project Manager, COTR, Contract Monitor(s) and other stakeholders. b. Capture and track actual data, such as costs, hours, dates, and maintain project baselines of the project schedules. The level of detail included in project schedule will be commensurate with the approved Level of Effort (LOE) document. The contractor shall comply with and adhere to any future project tracking tools and standards. 2. WEBEX The WEBEX tool is web conferencing software used for on-line training or conferencing and is a critical component of a successful system implementation strategy. The contractor may use the WEBEX tool to train users and troubleshoot issues, when appropriate, in order to assist PBGC in reducing travel cost and other expenditures associated with training endusers.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

39

3. PBGC's Portal The contractor shall utilize the Portal, PBGC internal web site for information sharing, where appropriate, to store project information. The contractor shall support converting the electronic version of the documentation to PBGC's Intranet. C.5.4.2.14 Security 1. The contractor shall ensure that all software design and development complies with PBGC's Information Security Policy (ISP) and Information Assurance best practices and standards and allows for customization as PBGC modifies its security policies and procedures. 2. The contractor shall obtain certification and accreditation from the Information Systems Security Officer (ISSO) before deployment of any enhancement projects. The contractor shall: a. Comply with other government standards including OMB Circular A130, the Computer Security Act of 1987 (Public Law 100-235), the Privacy Act of 1974 as amended, and the Freedom of Information Act as amended. b. Ensure all participant data is password protected. c. Ensure role-based data security and audit capability is applied. d. Comply with and adhere to any future security directives and policies. C.5.5 Operations and Maintenance of Legacy Applications and the new BCV Solution Operations support includes Production and User Support, Infrastructure and Other Support as defined below and is ongoing. Maintenance support enables systems to operate according to the most recent set of approved requirements and does not change functionality, features or capability of the existing applications. The timing of maintenance requests is generally predictable. However, the nature of the request may not be as predictable. In performing Operations and Maintenance, the contractor shall adhere to the business and technical requirements set forth above in regard to the planning, design and development of the new BCV solution. C.5.5.1 Operations C.5.5.1.1 Production and User Support In order to maintain the current benefit calculation system and the future BCV solution in production and to provide user support, the contractor shall do the
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 40

following to meet the customer's needs and the organization's goals and objectives of being timely, accurate, and responsive to customers. a. Respond and resolve operational problems and Peregrine tickets assigned to the BCV solution and ACT/Archive teams. Contact users and provide technical assistance to ensure issues are resolved. Effectively communicate with the users to provide the status of the open issues. b. Provide service desk support, follow OIT Service Management, Incident and Problem Management processes and participate in root cause analysis in order to resolve production and user support issues. c. Perform life cycle maintenance to correct defects. Plan, develop, test, and implement changes for emergency releases and schedule releases. Effectively coordinate with the appropriate teams to ensure the code deployment is successfully implemented into production. d. Manage security, roles and responsibilities within the BCV solution so that user roles are defined according to the business need. Evaluate existing and new responsibilities based on the user requirements. Recommend and map the corresponding BCV solution responsibilities to the appropriate job categories. Request new job categories as needed to reflect new groups of users using the BCV solution. e. Configure, when required, application server domains, web switch and other technologies associated with Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA). f. Effectively respond to questions about the BCV solution, system errors and outages and resolve technical issues with production Database Administrators (DBA's), network support, other PBGC teams, other systems and databases such as Genesis and Spectrum. g. Provide guidance and coordination along with the support staff such as Production DBA's, contractors, and PBGC Infrastructure Teams, in order to restore the BCV solution's Production environment due to outages and problems related Oracle Identity Management (OID) Single-Sign-On (SSO), Benefit Administration Home Page, and other program logic errors and non-critical requests for production support. h. Provide integration system support with development teams such as MyPBA, Participant Application Maintenance Team (PAMT), eALG, Spectrum/Genesis, Customer Relationship Management (CRM), Integrated Present Value of Future Benefits Systems (IPVFB), Approval Work list Application (AWA) User Provisioning Tool (UPT) and ACT. i. Provide support to IT Infrastructure Operations (ITIO) to resolve application production issues. j. Provide proactive performance monitoring, application usage analysis and reporting in order to identify potential or actual system failures and analyze how to prevent and remedy the issues identified. k. Proactively monitor the BCV solution (hardware and software) and responsively communicate and report issues, resolve customer requests and provide solutions to ensure successful resolution of system problems.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 41

l. Monitor stored procedures; preset automated jobs and other executables that are run periodically in production to support operations. m. Manage change requests, system problem reporting, and tracking requests for the BCV solution in the Testing Center Operations (Common Development Environment (CDE), Integration Testing Center (ITC)) and Production environments so that changes are successfully tracked in all environments. n. Conduct analysis of problems reported by users and recommend business, functional and technical improvements for the affected systems and business processes in order to ensure the BCV solution is providing the greatest benefit to users. o. Provide alternative solutions to improve the related processes and assist in exploring possibilities of using new features, functions and modules that will increase operational efficiency of the BCV solution and other applications. p. Prepare recommendations for training based on any operational or functional changes to the BCV solution. q. Maintain and update system administration operational procedures, operations guide, manuals and documents to reflect revisions and correction of errors to the BCV solution. r. Ensure separation of duties between designated personnel to perform development tasks and designated personnel to perform production tasks in order to be in compliance with PBGC security policies and procedures. s. Provide after-hours and weekend support to users/stakeholders as requested by PBGC during yearly processing. C.5.5.1.2 Infrastructure and Other Support OIT requires applications to support Infrastructure projects and initiatives in order to ensure the systems are using the latest technology required to resolve known software issues and improve system performance and efficiency. These projects support hardware and software upgrades, testing efforts, recommended security patches and other specific requirements beneficial to PBGC's response to customers. Other support includes disaster recovery efforts, integrated development team support and a timely response to audit findings. The contractor shall support infrastructure initiatives and projects and provide other support for the BCV solution. More specifically, the contractor shall: a. Proactively plan, design, develop, test, and deploy infrastructure requirements and modernize existing systems based on the approved requirements. b. Schedule and coordinate the infrastructure releases with the appropriate teams and deliver releases on time and within budget.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 42

c. Assist PBGC with the identification of infrastructure requirements that are used to improve the overall BCV solution. d. Evaluate, test and implement system upgrades to hardware and systems software in order maintain system and software compatibility; effectively coordinate with the impacted groups, which include PBGC Headquarters, Kingstowne, FBA Offices and State Street Corporation and other BCV users. e. Coordinate the notification of the deployment of releases to users, stakeholders, Project Manager, COTR, and other impacted parties in a timely manner. f. Assist in defining enterprise architecture standards. Ensure system designs are compliant and interoperable with PBGC's EA standards and other applications. g. Leverage internal EA and industry best practices and standards to provide system improvement recommendations for system operations in order to ensure reliability, performance, capacity, system improvement and optimal resource utilization of the system. h. Perform performance tuning recommendations on application databases in order to keep the system operating and running efficiently. i. Use reporting tools to determine system performance. Implement changes that improve the performance of the application. j. Participate in Corporate-Wide IT initiatives such as Security Plan Updates. Also, assist with the application's security certification and accreditation evaluation. k. Provide after-hours and weekend support to users/stakeholders as requested by PBGC during yearly processing and other peak periods. l. Plan and participate in the Continuity of Operations Plan (COOP) Test and provide support to ensure the coordination and restoration of operations for the BCV solution. The contractor shall: ˇ Identify the key personnel to participate in COOP and will ensure the personnel are located at the specific COOP location, when requested Develop COOP test scenarios Work with users and the COOP team to execute the COOP tests Document and maintain the COOP test results

ˇ ˇ ˇ

m. Support application and system audits conducted by external and internal auditors. n. Respond to audit questions in order to keep PBGC compliant with internal and external standards, policies and procedures.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 43

C.5.5.2 Maintenance In order to support maintenance efforts that affect the current benefit calculation system and the future BCV solution, the contractor shall: a. Analyze and evaluate software problems to perform corrections/minor changes (e.g., data fixes) to support application users. Validate the corrections, minor changes and enhancements identified, define the requirements, design the correction, analyze the impact of the correction on the software product, test the corrected software, analyze and evaluate the test results for the corrected software, and then implement the corrected software according to an approved plan. b. Deploy all software enhancements through releases according to established PBGC software configuration management procedures and change management policies, processes and procedures and PBGC security policies to ensure the agency standards are accurately captured and incorporated into the releases. c. Coordinate maintenance support efforts and implement maintenance changes with OIT and other personnel from impacted systems to ensure the smooth deployment of the software. Support includes obtaining and understanding relevant technical information including installation instructions, file listings, known problems document, data dictionary changes and support policy guidelines. d. Maintain, coordinate and provide technical assistance and support for the testing and upgrading of all standard software in all environments including the Common Development Environment ­ Team Specific (CDE-T), Common Development Environment ­ Integrated (CDE-I), Integration Testing Center (ITC) and alternative sites (to support COOP). e. Implement audit findings. f. Continuously evaluate emerging technology for applicability to the BCV solution and provide system improvement recommendations for new technology initiatives. Maintain and modify the BCV solution to meet new technical requirements. g. Provide technical assistance to migrate existing plans and add new plans into the new BCV solution, database and operating systems on servers to future software versions. h. Conduct technical and functional reviews of the latest system software releases and provide technical and functional support to areas such as OIT and BAPD staff in maintaining the BCV solution.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

44

Appendix A: Acronyms and Definitions
Actuarial Calculation Toolkit (ACT) ­ One of the two benefit calculation systems currently in use by PBGC. ACT is an internally developed suite of tools. Ariel ­ One of the two benefit calculation systems currently in use by PBGC. Ariel is a parameter-based system. Benefit Calculation and Valuation (BCV) solution ­ The software and processes used to calculate and value PBGC-payable benefits. Benefit Determination Process (a.k.a. Valuation Process) ­ The process by which PBGC determines and values the PBGC benefit that is due to each participant, beneficiary and alternative payee in a trusteed pension plan. Benefit Determination Letters (BDLs) ­ Letters, sometimes accompanied by Benefit Statements, sent to participants, beneficiaries and alternative payees to inform them of their final Benefit Determination. Benefit Statement ­ A printed report showing a participant's, beneficiary's or alternate payee's PBGC benefit and a portion of the input data used in the calculation of that benefit. Benefit Statements may also show details of some calculations. Development, Modernization and Enhancement (DME) - program costs for new investments, changes or modifications to existing systems to improve capability or performance. External Database ­ After the processing team has thoroughly analyzed the Outside Databases (defined below) and plan documents, they consolidate relevant portions of the Outside Database into a single database referred to here as the External Database. "Participant Database," "PDA Database" (Participant Data Audit) or "Auditor's Database" are other terms used for the External Database. The External Database is composed of both Raw and Derived Data Elements. Listings are wide (potentially hundreds of columns) columnar reports showing the details of the calculation for a group of participants. NIST - National Institute of Standards and Technology is a federal technology agency that develops and promotes measurements, standards, and technology. Outside Databases ­ Data obtained from prior plan administrators, actuarial firms, banks, insurance companies, etc. that may or may not eventually become part of the External Database.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

45

PBGC Enterprise Database or Enterprise Database encompasses the collection of software including PRISM, Spectrum, Genesis, GENOWN and SPECOWN. Informal PBGC lingo often uses these terms interchangeably. PRISM is the suite of applications used to pay benefits and process other life events (deaths, marriages, etc). PBGC is in the process of replacing PRISM with Spectrum. Genesis is the Oracle database containing PRISM and Spectrum data. GENOWN and SPECOWN are names of Oracle instances within Genesis. The Enterprise Database does not include either ACT's or Ariel's database. Participant Database ­ See External Database Raw and Derived Data Elements ­ Raw data Elements are those evident in the plan documents as necessary for calculating pension benefits. Derived Data Elements are any others that the BCV solution requires to be included in the Valuation Database. Reconciliation ­ The process by which BAPD identifies and, to the maximumextent possible, corrects differences between the PBGC Enterprise Database and the External Database and, later, the Valuation Database Steady State (SS) - maintenance and operation costs at current capability and performance level. Valuation Database ­ The database used by the benefit calculation software for calculating and valuing benefits as of the Date of Plan Termination (DOPT) and recalculating benefits based on additional post-DOPT information. Valuation Process ­ See Benefit Determination Process

Other Acronyms
ANSI - American National Standards Institute ARTIS - Appeals Research Tracking and Information System BAPD - Benefit Administration Payment Department CCB - Change Control Board CDE - Common Development Environment CDE-I - Common Development Environment - Integrated CDE-T - Common Development Environment - Team Specific CM - Contract Monitor CMS - Customer Management System COOP - Continuity of Operations Plan
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 46

COTR - Contract Officer Technical Representative COTS - Commercial-Off-The-Shelf Application CRM - Customer Relationship Management DBA - Database Administrators EA - Enterprise Architecture eALG - Electronic Automated Letter Generation FBA - Field Benefit Administrator's IDIQ - Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity IPS - Image Processing System IPT - Integrated Project Team ISP - Information Security Policy ISSO - Information System Security Officer IT - Information Technology ITC - Integrated Testing Center ITIO - Information Technology Infrastructure Operations ITIOD - Information Technology Infrastructure Operations Department ITSLCM - Information Technology Systems Life Cycle Methodology LOE - Level of Effort MCU - Management Control Unit MYPBA - My Pension Benefit Administration OID - Oracle Identity Management OIT - Office of Information Technology OMB - Office of Management and Budget QASP - Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan PBGC - Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation PPQA - Process and Product Quality Assurance PRISM - Participant Records Information System Management PVCS - Provisioning Version Control System PWS - Performance Work Statement SOA - Service Oriented Architecture TCO - Test Center Operations TPD - Trusteeship Processing Division UPT - User Provisioning Tool
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 47

Appendix B­ References
The following documents are included for your reference: Located at www.fbo.gov 1. Actuarial Technical Manual 2. Actuarial Calculation Toolkit (ACT) Manual 3. BAPD Operations Manual 4. BAPD Operating Policy Manual

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

48

SECTION D PACKAGING AND MARKING D.1PBGC-11-004 PACKAGING AND MARKING (OCT 2004) The Contractor is responsible for the cost of all packing, packaging, and mailing in accordance with the best commercial practices. All information submitted to the Contracting Officer or the COTR must be clearly marked with the company name, the PBGC contract number, and identification of the item.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

49

SECTION E INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE E. 1 52.246-4 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--FIXED-PRICE (AUG 1996) (Reference 52.246-4) E. 2 52.246-5 INSPECTION OF SERVICES--COST-REIMBURSEMENT (APR 1984)(Reference 52.246-5) E. 3 PBGC-46-001 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF DELIVERABLES (OCT 2004) All deliverable items are to be furnished to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or to PBGC personnel designated by the COTR to receive a specific deliverable. PBGC's receipt of a deliverable does not constitute acceptance by the Government. Final acceptance of any reports or other deliverable items required under this contract shall be made in writing and may only be made by the COTR or Contracting Officer.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

50

SECTION F DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE F. 1 52.242-15 STOP-WORK ORDER (AUG 1989) (a) The Contracting Officer may, at any time, by written order to the Contractor, require the Contractor to stop all, or any part, of the work called for by this contract for a period of 90 days after the order is delivered to the Contractor, and for any further period to which the parties may agree. The order shall be specifically identified as a stop-work order issued under this clause. Upon receipt of the order, the Contractor shall immediately comply with its terms and take all reasonable steps to minimize the incurrence of costs allocable to the work covered by the order during the period of work stoppage. Within a period of 90 days after a stop-work is delivered to the Contractor, or within any extension of that period to which the parties shall have agreed, the Contracting Officer shall either-(1) Cancel the stop-work order; or (2) Terminate the work covered by the order as provided in the Default, or the Termination for Convenience of the Government, clause of this contract. (b) If a stop-work order issued under this clause is canceled or the period of the order or any extension thereof expires, the Contractor shall resume work. The Contracting Officer shall make an equitable adjustment in the delivery schedule or contract price, or both, and the contract shall be modified, in writing, accordingly, if-(1) The stop-work order results in an increase in the time required for, or in the Contractor's cost properly allocable to, the performance of any part of this contract; and (2) The Contractor asserts its right to the adjustment within 30 days after the end of the period of work stoppage; provided, that, if the Contracting Officer decides the facts justify the action, the Contracting Officer may receive and act upon the claim submitted at any time before final payment under this contract. (c) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for the convenience of the Government, the Contracting Officer shall allow reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order in arriving at the termination settlement. (d) If a stop-work order is not canceled and the work covered by the order is terminated for default, the Contracting Officer shall allow, by equitable adjustment or otherwise, reasonable costs resulting from the stop-work order. (End of Clause)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

51

SECTION G CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA G. 1 PBGC-32-003 SUBMISSION OF INVOICES (COST REIMBURSEMENT) (JAN 2006) A monthly invoice shall be submitted on SF1034 and SF1035 in an original and one copy for work performed hereunder to: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION GENERAL ACCOUNTING BRANCH 1200 K STREET, NW, Mail Stop: GAB WASHINGTON, DC 20005-4026 All inquiries concerning payment shall be directed to the General Accounting Branch at (202) 326-4062 #0 or by e-mail: InvoiceManager@pbgc.gov. One copy of each invoice including all backup documentation shall be sent to: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION ATTN: ________________ 1200 K STREET, NW WASHINGTON, DC 20005-4026 The contract number shall appear on the outer envelope of all invoice copies submitted. To constitute a proper invoice, the invoice must include all of the following information: (a) Name of the contractor (b) Contract Number (c) Invoice number (d) Invoice date (e) Description of services performed or supplies delivered including: 1) labor hours by labor category, the hourly rate for each labor category billed, and the sum by labor category and, 2) the cumulative hours expended and dollars invoiced from the contract inception through the billing period. (f) A copy of time record sheets indicating daily starting and finishing times of the personnel performing the services under this contract shall be submitted with the Contractor's invoice for said services. At PBGC's request, the contractor shall make available copies of any of the materials relevant to substantiating the hours invoiced by the contractor. (g) Copies of receipts or bills and proof of payment for any authorized other direct costs for which the contractor is requesting reimbursement. (h) If applicable, shipping and discount terms. NOTE: Withholding of fee in accordance with Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Clause 52.216-10 shall be reflected on each invoice until the maximum amount of fee withholding is reached. _ (End of Clause) G. 2 PBGC-42-001 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (OCT 2004) The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) is __________________ who may be reached at ______________. The COTR is authorized to assist in monitoring the work under this contract. The COTR is responsible for the technical administration of the contract and technical liaison with the contractor. The COTR IS NOT authorized to change the scope of work or specifications as stated in the contract, to make any commitments or otherwise obligate the Government or authorize any changes which affect the contract price, delivery schedule, period of performance or other terms or conditions. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can legally commit or obligate the Government for the expenditure of public funds. The technical administration of this contract shall not be construed to authorize the revision of the terms and conditions of this contract. Any such revision shall be authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. The COTR is authorized to review and recommend approval of: (a) Technical matters not involving a change in scope, price, terms and conditions of the contract (b) Progress reports (c) Inspection and acceptance of services and deliverable products and (d) Invoices.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 52

The COTR is not authorized to sign any contractual instruments or to direct any action that results in a change in the scope, price, terms or condition of the contract. G. 3 PBGC-42-002 OBSERVANCE OF LEGAL HOLIDAYS (OCT 2004) The Contractor shall establish a holiday schedule for personnel performing under this contract that exactly coincides with the Government's schedule. Holidays peculiar to or dynamically declared by the Government shall be considered as holidays for Contractor personnel and are not billable unless work is actually performed on these days. No work will be performed by Contractor personnel on Government holidays without prior approval of the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. Work performed on holidays shall be billable at the regular rate. Government holidays are: (1) New Year's Day, (2) Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, (3) President's Day, (4) Memorial Day, (5) 4th of July, (6) Labor Day, (7) Columbus Day, (8) Veteran's Day, (9 Thanksgiving Day, (10) Christmas Day (11) Any other day designated by Federal Statute, (12) Any other day designated by Executive Order, (13) Any other day designated by the President's Proclamation.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

53

SECTION H SPECIAL CONTRACT REQUIREMENTS H. 1 PBGC-00-001 PROFESSIONAL ATTIRE (OCT 2005) The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation receives many visitors who conduct business with the Corporation. Consequently, the professional appearance of those who work in PBGC facilities is important to maintaining confidence in PBGC and the pension insurance system. The Contractor shall ensure that its personnel who perform work in PBGC facilities present a neat, professional appearance appropriate to an office working environment. Some examples of inappropriate office attire include jeans, sneakers, sweat pants, lycra stretch pants, collar-less shirts, bare midriff tops, and spaghetti-strap tops. The Contractor shall ensure that its personnel exercise sound judgment in their choice of attire. H. 2 PBGC-03-001 CONFIDENTIALITY OF INFORMATION (OCT 2004) (a) To the extent that the work under this contract requires that the Contractor be given access to confidential or proprietary business, technical, or financial information belonging to the Government or other companies, the Contractor shall, after receipt thereof, treat such information as confidential and agree not to appropriate such information to its own use or to disclose such information to third parties unless specifically authorized by the Contracting Officer in writing. The foregoing obligations, however, shall not apply to: (1) Information which, at the time of receipt by the Contractor, is in the public domain; (2) Information which is published after receipt thereof by the Contractor or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of the Contractor; (3) Information which the Contractor can demonstrate was already in his possession at the time of receipt from PBGC and was not acquired directly or indirectly from the Government or other companies; (4) Information which the Contractor can demonstrate was received by it from a third party who did not require the Contractor to hold it in confidence. (b) The Contractor shall obtain the written agreement, in a form satisfactory to the Contracting Officer or his designee, of each employee permitted access, whereby the employee agrees that he will not discuss, divulge or disclose any such information or data to any person or entity except those persons within the Contractor's organization directly concerned with the performance of the contract. (c) The Contractor agrees, if requested by the Government, to sign an agreement identical, in all material respects, to the provisions of this clause, with each company supplying information to the Contractor under this contract, and to supply a copy of such agreement to the Contracting Officer. From time to time upon request of the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall supply the Government with reports itemizing information received as confidential or proprietary and setting forth the company or
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 54

companies from which the Contractor received such information. (d) The Contractor agrees that upon request by PBGC it will execute a PBGC-approved agreement with any party whose proprietary data it is given access to or is furnished, restricting use and disclosure of the data. Upon request by PBGC, such an agreement shall also be signed by Contractor personnel. (e) This clause shall flow down to all subcontracts. H. 3 PBGC-03-002 ORGANIZATIONAL CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (OCT 2004) (a) Purpose. The purpose of this clause is to ensure that the contractor (1) is not biased because of its financial, contractual, organizational, or other interests which relate to the work under this contract, and (2) does not obtain any unfair competitive advantage over other parties by virtue of its performance of this contract. (b) Scope. The restrictions described herein shall apply to performance or participation by the contractor and any of its partners, affiliates or their successors in interest (after this collectively referred to as the "contractor") in the activities covered by this clause as a prime contractor, subcontractor, cosponsor, joint venturer, consultant, or in any similar capacity. For the purpose of this clause, affiliation occurs when a business concern is controlled by or has the power to control another or when a third party has the power to control both. (1) Use of Contractor's Work Product. (i) The contractor shall be ineligible to participate in any capacity in PBGC contracts, subcontracts, or proposals there for (solicited and unsolicited) which stem directly from the contractor's performance of work under this contract. Furthermore, unless so directed in writing by the Contracting Officer, the contractor shall not perform any advisory and assistance services work under this contract on any of its products or services or the products or services of another firm if the contractor is or has been substantially involved in their development or marketing. Nothing in this subparagraph shall preclude the contractor from competing for follow-on contracts for advisory and assistance services. (ii) If, under this contract, the contractor prepares a complete or essentially complete statement of work or specifications to be used in competitive acquisitions, the contractor is ineligible to perform or participate in any capacity in any contractual effort which is based on such statement of work or specifications. The contractor shall not incorporate its products or services in such statement of work or specifications unless so directed in writing by the Contracting Officer, in which case the restriction in this subparagraph shall not apply. (iii) Nothing in this clause precludes the contractor from offering or selling its standard commercial items to the Government. (2) Access to and use of information. (i) If the contractor, in the performance of this contract, obtains access to information, such as Corporate plans, policies, reports, studies, financial plans, internal data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 552a), or data which has not been released or otherwise made available to the public, the contractor agrees that without prior written approval of the Contracting Officer it shall not:

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

55

(A) use such information for any private purpose unless the information has been released or otherwise made available to the public; (B) compete for work for PBGC based on such information for a period of six months after either the completion of this contract or until such information is released or otherwise made available to the public, whichever is first; (C) submit an unsolicited proposal to the Government which is based on such information until one year after such information is released or otherwise made available to the public; and (D) release such information unless such information has previously been released or otherwise made available to the public by PBGC. (ii) In addition, the contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data, data protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 or other confidential or privileged technical, business, or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information in accordance with all restrictions imposed on disclosure and use of such information. (c) Disclosure after award. (1) The contractor agrees that if changes, including additions, to the facts disclosed by it prior to award of this contract, occur during the performance of this contract, it shall make an immediate and full disclosure of such changes in writing to the Contracting Officer. Such disclosure may include a description of any action which the contractor has taken or proposes to take to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate any resulting conflict of interest. PBGC may, however, terminate the contract for convenience if it deems such termination to be in the best interest of the Government. (2) In the event that the contractor was aware of facts required to be disclosed or the existence of an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest and did not disclose such facts or such conflict of interest to the Contracting Officer, PBGC may terminate this contract for default. (d) Remedies. For breach of any of the above restrictions or for nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any facts required to be disclosed concerning this contract, including the existence of an actual or potential organizational conflict of interest at the time of or after award, the Government may terminate the contract for default, disqualify the contractor from subsequent related contractual efforts, and pursue such other remedies as may be permitted by law or this contract. (e) Waiver. Requests for waiver under this clause shall be directed in writing to the PBGC Office of General Counsel and a copy provided to the Contracting Officer, and shall include a full description of the requested waiver and the reasons in support of the request. If it is determined to be in the best interests of the Government, the Contracting Officer may grant such a waiver in writing. (f) Subcontracts. (1) The contractor shall include a clause, substantially similar to this clause, including this paragraph (f), in subcontracts expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold in FAR Part 13. The terms "contract, "contractor," and "Contracting Officer" shall be appropriately modified to preserve the Government's rights. (2) Prior to the award under this contract of any such subcontracts for advisory and assistance services, the contractor shall obtain from the proposed subcontractor or consultant a disclosure of all existing or potential organizational conflicts of interest and
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 56

shall determine in writing whether the interests disclosed present a significant potential for an organizational conflict of interest. Where an actual or significant potential organizational conflict of interest is identified, the contractor shall take actions to avoid, neutralize, or mitigate the organizational conflict to the satisfaction of the contractor. If the conflict cannot be avoided or neutralized, the contractor must obtain the approval of the PBGC Contracting Officer prior to entering into the subcontract. H. 4 PBGC-03-003 SUITABILITY DETERMINATION REQUIREMENTS (JAN 2010) The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation will investigate and adjudicate the suitability of contractors for employment or continued employment. PBGC will employ and/or retain only those persons found suitable for employment. (1) The Contractor employees governed by this contract may need to access sensitive information. PBGC reserves the right to determine suitability for contractor personnel at the project site and deny access to any sensitive information or project specific area to any personnel for any cause. (2) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer in writing providing the name and the nationality of non-U.S. citizens who are legal residents, providing a copy of their VISA (work permit) or an alien who has been lawfully admitted for permanent residence as evidenced by Alien Registration Receipt Card Form I-151, or who presents other evidence from the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services that employment will not affect his/her immigration status. PBGC reserves the right to refuse any foreign national participation on this contract and to refuse them permission to enter PBGC premises. (3) The Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) will provide the appropriate background investigation forms to the contractor and give the contractor instructions for completing the background investigation process. These responsibilities may be delegated to the Contract Manager or the Contract Security Representative with the understanding that the COTR holds ultimate responsibility. Completed background investigation forms shall be submitted within two (2) weeks from the Entrance on Duty date to: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation PBGC Security Officer Facilities and Services Department 1200 K Street, NW, Mail Stop: FASD Washington, DC 20005-4026 (4) PBGC will exercise full and complete control over granting, denying, withholding, or terminating clearances for employees. The PBGC may, as it deems appropriate, authorize and grant temporary clearance to employees of the contractor. However, the granting of a temporary clearance to any such employee shall not be considered as assurance that full clearance will follow as a result or condition thereof and the granting
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 57

of either a temporary or full clearance shall in no way prevent, preclude or bar the withdrawal or termination of any such clearance by the PBGC. (5) If the adjudication is unfavorable on a contract employee, or if PBGC finds a contractor to be unsuitable or unfit for his or her assigned duties, the Personnel Security Officer will contact the Contractor to effect the immediate removal of the contract employee from the PBGC contract and premises. (6) PBGC may waive suitability determinations for contractor personnel who have had recent background investigations at the appropriate suitability determination risk level established by either the COTR or the Personnel Security Officer. PBGC will inform the contractors where such is the case. The Contractor will be provided a copy of the PBGC Directive PM 05-6, "Personnel Security and Suitability Program" and PBGC Directive PM 05-1, "PBGC Entrance on Duty and Separation Procedures for Federal and Contract Employees" and facilitate the Suitability Determination process. Failure to comply with PM 05-1 may result in: (a) corrective action, up to and including contract termination for continued non-compliance after counseling, or (b) documented non-compliance on the contractor's past performance evaluation. H. 5 PBGC-03-004 DISPLAY OF PBGC IDENTIFICATION BADGES (APR 2007) The Contractor shall comply with PBGC Directive Number GA-10-9, "Display of PBGC Identification Badges," the full content of which is located at http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/GA_10_9.pdf - Directive GA-10-9. All contract and subcontract employees whose duties under this contract require their presence on designated PBGC facilities shall be clearly identifiable by a distinctive badge furnished by PBGC and shall observe and otherwise be subject to such security regulations as are in effect for the particular premises in accordance with PBGC Directive Number GA-10-9. The PBGC-issued photo Identification Badge must be visible and be displayed at or above the waist. Badges may be displayed from either lanyard or clip style holders. The badge must be available for building security officer inspection in order to authenticate and validate. Contractors that arrive to work without their Badge must: report to the Security Desk located in the 1200 K Street lobby; sign-in to the appropriate Log Book; present a valid government-issued form of photo identification to the security officer; contact a co-worker to vouch for him/her by signature in the log book; and, receive and display a temporary badge which shall be visible at all times and displayed at or above the waist. Contractors shall be responsible for the care and protection of their Badge and promptly report all instances of loss or theft and initiate immediate action to replace the lost or stolen Badge. Contractors must relinquish their Badge upon separation or upon any circumstances which make the continued possession or use inappropriate. Failure to comply with this Directive can result in refusal of admittance to PBGC designated facilities. (End of Clause) H. 6 PBGC-04-004 PBGC INFORMATION SECURITY (DEC 2009)
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 58

The provider of information technology shall adhere to: 1)Federal statutes, 2)Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance, 3)National Institute of Standards and Technology Federal Information Processing Standards and PBGC implementation of Security Guidelines (800 Series), (See 5a -- IM 05-2 below.) 4)Federal Information Systems Controls and Audit Manual (FISCAM), and 5)PBGC Orders relating to information security including: a)IM 05-2 Information Technology Security Policies, http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/im_05_2.pdf b)IM 05-7 Information Technology Solutions Life Cycle Methodology (ITSLCM), http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/im_05_7.pdf and c)IM 05-4 Use of Information Technology Resources. http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/Im_05_4.pdf The provider of information technology shall comply with PBGCs implementation of the following control frameworks including the: a)Capability Maturity Model - Integrated (CMMI), b)Control Objectives for Information and Related Technologies (COBIT), and c)Information Technology Infrastructure Library (ITIL); and In addition, the provider of information technology shall certify the following: 1)Applications are fully functional and operate correctly as intended on systems using the Federal Desktop Core Configuration (FDCC). Once PBGC approves for implementation, this also includes Internet Explorer 7 configured to operate on Windows XP and Vista (in Protected Mode on Vista). a)For the Windows XP settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_WinXP.html, and b)for the Windows Vista settings, see: http://csrc.nist.gov/itsec/guidance_vista.html. 2)The standard installation, operation, maintenance, updates, and/or patching of software shall not alter the configuration settings from the approved FDCC configuration. The information technology should also use the Windows Installer Service for installation to the default program files directory and should be able to silently install and uninstall. Applications designed for normal end users shall run in the standard user context without elevated system administration privileges. (End of Clause)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

59

H.7 PBGC-04-005 PROTECTION OF PERSONALLY IDENTIFIABLE INFORMATION (PII) (DEC 2009) (a) To the extent that the work under this contract requires the Contractor be given access to personally identifiable information about an individual gathered and/or maintained by the Government or the Contractor (hereinafter referred to as PII), the Contractor shall after receipt thereof, treat such PII as confidential and safeguard such information from unauthorized use and disclosure. (b) The Contractor agrees to allow access only to those employees who need the PII to perform services under this contract and agrees that PII will be used solely for the purpose of performing services under this contract. The Contractor shall ensure that its employees will not discuss, divulge or disclose any such PII to any person or entity except those persons within the Contractors organization directly concerned with the performance of the contract. (c) The Contractor shall administer a monitoring process to ensure compliance with the provisions of this clause, promptly report any breaches to the Contracting Officers Technical Representative (COTR), and implement immediate, appropriate corrective actions to contain and prevent recurrence. (d) The Contractor shall report to the COTR immediately upon discovery of a real or suspected loss of PII. Protected PII is an individuals first name or first initial and last name in combination with any one or more of the following data elements including, but not limited to, social security number, passport number, credit card numbers, clearances, bank numbers, biometrics, date and place of birth, mothers maiden name, criminal, medical and financial records, educational transcripts, pension and participant plan, etc. (e) The Contractor and employees shall adhere to PBGC Orders relating to the protection of sensitive and personally identifiable information including: 1. IM 10-2 Safeguarding Tax Return Information, http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/IM_10_2.pdf 2. IM 103 Protecting Sensitive Information, http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/IM_10_3.pdf and 3. IM 15-1 PBGC Records Management Programs, http://www.pbgc.gov/docs/IM_15_1.pdf (Note: If unable to access these orders, the Contracting Officer will provide copies upon request.) (f) The Government may terminate this contract for default or cause if the Contractor or an employee of the Contractor fails to comply with the provisions of this clause. The Government may also exercise any other rights and remedies provided by law or this contract, including criminal and civil penalties. (g) The Contractor shall include this clause in all subcontracts. However, such provision in the subcontracts shall not relieve Contractor of its obligation to assure compliance with the provisions of this clause. (End of Clause) H.8 PBGC-04-006 COMMON SECURITY CONFIGURATIONS FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION (NOV 2009) In acquiring Information Technology (IT) assets for the Government, the Contractor shall incorporate and comply with the latest version of all applicable information technology security policies and requirements, including, but not limited to, those published by PBGC, and the common security configurations defined by the National Institute of Standards and Technology [NIST] at http://web.nvd.nist.gov/view/ncp/repository and http://checklist.nist.gov which are generally for desktop operating systems (Windows XP or VISTA). When incorporating such security configuration requirements in contracts, the contractor can consult with the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative to determine the appropriate configuration reference for a particular system or services
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 60

acquisition. The Contractor shall ensure all its subcontractors which perform work under this contract comply with the above requirements. H. 9 PBGC-09-001 RESTRICTIONS AGAINST DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION (OCT 2004) (a) The Contractor agrees that it will take such measures as are necessary to restrict access to pension plan and participant records as well as any other information related to work pursuant to this contract (including, but not limited to, any information relating to legal, policy, program, operational or other issues, whether concerning existing, proposed or contemplated legislation, regulations, policy issuances or similar matters or otherwise) to those employees and/or subcontractors of the Contractor needing such information to perform the work required on a "need-to-know" basis. This Clause does not apply to information which has been released to the public by PBGC or which is available to the public other than by the Contractor's breach of this Agreement. (b) The Contractor agrees to keep the restricted information in the strictest confidence. The Contractor also agrees not to publish, reproduce or otherwise divulge the Information in whole or in part, in any manner or form, nor to authorize or permit others to do so, taking such reasonable measures as are necessary to restrict access to the Information, to those employees and/or subcontractors needing such information to perform the work required under the contract, i.e., on a "need-to-know" basis. The obligation to maintain confidentiality continues after completion, termination, or expiration of this contract. The Information shall be made available only at the discretion of the PBGC and subject to the Freedom of Information Act (5 U.S.C. Sec. 552), as amended, The Privacy Act, (5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a), as amended, The Trade Secrets Act, (18 U.S.C. Sec. 1905, as amended), and any other applicable laws or regulations. Further, the Contractor shall notify the PBGC of the transfer to subcontractors of any information prior to any such transfer. Upon completion of the Contractor's obligations, the Contractor shall return or destroy all copies of restricted information, whether furnished by PBGC or created by the Contractor and any subcontractor. (c) The Contractor agrees to immediately notify the PBGC, in writing, in the event that the Contractor determines or has reason to suspect a breach of any part of this clause. (d) The Contractor agrees to immediately notify the PBGC in writing, of any request received from any individual who is not a party to this contract, for access to information related to this contract. Those requests will be directed to PBGC's Disclosure Officer for processing under the provision of the Freedom of Information Act. This paragraph does not apply to a request by an individual for access to information contained in records pertaining to that particular individual. However, if the individual wants copies of the actual records pertaining to him, he first must contact PBGC's Disclosure Officer. (e) The Contractor agrees that it will not knowingly violate any statutory or regulatory restrictions against the disclosure of government records, including 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a, as amended, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552, as amended, 18 U.S.C. Sec. 1905, as amended, and implementing regulations. The Contractor also agrees that it will take steps to ensure that any subcontractor will also adhere to these restrictions. (f) The Contractor is bound by Section (m) of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a(m) and as such is considered under the act to be an employee of the agency. Accordingly, the

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

61

Contractor and any of its employees are subject to the criminal penalties of the Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C. Sec. 552a(i). (g) The Contractor will designate and identify an individual who shall be responsible for the notifications required under sections b, c and d of this agreement and who shall receive all appropriate responses from the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or from PBGC's Disclosure Officer. The Contractor shall take those steps necessary to ensure that the provisions of paragraphs a-g, inclusive, are adhered to by all directors, officers, agents and employees of the Contractor. (h) The Contractor shall place the provisions contained at Paragraphs a-g, above, in all subcontracts entered into pursuant to the contract where the subcontractor will have or may gain access to PBGC information and, further, the Contractor agrees to enforce the provisions of this Clause against any and all subcontractors under this contract. H. 10 PBGC-31-003 TRAINING (OCT 2004) All costs associated with training required to make a contractor employee qualified to perform any given task under this contract shall be borne by the Contractor. The Contractor may be reimbursed by the PBGC for the cost of a training course on PBGC specific applications, policies or procedures only when the training has been preapproved by the COTR. The Contractor shall present to the COTR a written justification which clearly describes the training, its direct benefits to PBGC, the impact if the training is not provided and the total cost including (1) salary or wages, (2) travel and accommodations in accordance with federal travel regulations, (3) tuition and fees when the training is in an institution not operated by PBGC or the Contractor, and (4) training materials and textbooks. The request must be made and approval granted by the COTR prior to the training. The COTR is designated the authority to approve or disapprove the training or any of the inclusive costs. H. 11 PBGC-37-002 EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE QUALIFICATIONS (JUL 2009) The Contractor is responsible for providing personnel under this contract who meet or exceed the minimum educational and/or experience qualifications in this contract. By assigning an employee to work under this contract, the contractor verifies that the employee's educational and/or experience has been independently validated. A record of the independent validation of the employee's educational and/or training credentials shall be retained by the contractor for Government inspection for a period of three year after final payment. Contractor personnel found by the Contracting Officer not to meet the minimum educational/experience qualifications and/or performance standards shall be removed immediately from this contract upon request by the Contracting Officer. Further, price/cost of work performed by a person who lacks the requisite education and/or experience may be reduced at the discretion of the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

62

H. 12 PBGC-39-001 ELECTRONIC AND INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (OCT 2004) The contractor shall ensure that all electronic and information technology (EIT) procured, developed, maintained, used or delivered under this contract meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194, unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at http://www.section508.gov and http://www.accessboard.gov/508.htm H.13 PBGC-39-002 INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SOLUTIONS LIFE CYCLE METHODOLOGY (ITSLCM) (APR 2007) As stated in the PBGC's ITSLCM Order (IM 05-07), PBGC requires that all federal and contract employees adhere to the Information Technology Solutions Life Cycle Methodology (ITSLCM) for delivering and managing the delivery of new and existing Information Technology (IT) solutions. The Contractor shall read and adhere to the ITSLCM Order and the ITSLCM. The Contractor shall request ITSLCM training through the designated COTR and/or Federal Project Manager. The Contractor shall work with their COTR and/or designated Federal Project Manager to tailor the ITSLCM for their IT Projects. The Contractor is required to utilize the Process Assets Library to access the latest version of the ITSLCM and its supporting documents. The Contractor shall plan, manage, track and report IT project (including Earned Value) and operations data, for all worked performed on the IT contract, in Primavera as PBGC's primary IT project management system of record (unless a different tool is approved by OIT). PBGC shall use Primavera as the primary source to verify the accuracy of vendor's invoices. A copy of the ITSLCM Order and the ITSLCM is viewable on the PBGC's Web Site under Procurement Opportunities. H.14 PBGC-37-001 KEY PERSONNEL (JAN 2006) PBGC defines key personnel as those personnel held responsible by the Contractor for making substantive, measurable contributions to the accomplishment of contracted work. They are those personnel essential to the ongoing conduct of the project and who will assure consistent control and direction. The following positions shall be designated as "Key Personnel": 1. Senior Project Manager 2. Project Manager 3. Operations Lead 4. Senior Quality Assurance Engineer 5. Solutions Architect 6. Senior Developer 7. Senior Database Administrator 8. Senior Managing Actuary 9. Senior Actuary
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 63

10. Business Analyst The key personnel shall NOT be reassigned or diverted without the written consent of the Contracting Officer. Prior to removing any of the individuals identified in the Contractor's proposal as key personnel, the Contractor shall provide thirty (30) calendar days advance notification to the Contracting Officer and shall submit justification (including resumes for proposed substitutions) in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the impact on the project. H.15 PBGC-45-0001 GOVERNMENT FURNISHED INFORMATION, ASSISTANCE AND/OR EQUIPMENT (OCT 2009) The Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) will furnish an initial briefing to appropriate contractor personnel in order to provide background on corporation policies and procedures. The briefing will be conducted by qualified PBGC staff members who will also be available to the contractor on an ongoing basis for consultation and guidance as needed. The initial briefing will be held at ** Enter data . The briefing will be conducted within ** Enter data days following contract award. b. PBGC will furnish, at the COTR's discretion, and to the extent available, copies of regulations, procedures, policies, other materials, administrative support and/or equipment necessary for the contractor to perform the work required by this contract. H.16 PBGC-46-0001 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF DELIVERABLES (OCT 2004) All deliverable items are to be furnished to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) or to PBGC personnel designated by the COTR to receive a specific deliverable. PBGC's receipt of a deliverable does not constitute acceptance by the Government. Final acceptance of any reports or other deliverable items required under this contract will be made in writing and may only be made by the COTR or Contracting Officer. H. 17 QUALIFICATIONS OF KEY PERSONNEL NOTE: In the following descriptions of required qualifications, the years of experience required under General Experience are inclusive of the years of experience required under Specialized and Specific Experience. Senior Project Manager Education: A bachelor's degree or higher in Information Technology, Actuarial Science, Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering, Mathematics, Business, or Management. The individual must be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Fifteen (15) years of progressively more technical and complex automated information systems software, project and program management experience
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 64

encompassing all areas of System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and System Life Cycle Methodology (SLCM) functions. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to: develop business cases, conduct alternatives analysis, make recommendations to the business stakeholders, work independently and in teams, and provide organizational and leadership skills; provide program, project and task management leadership to ensure that tasks are completed on-time, within budget, and meet requirements. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years experience in supervising large (averaging ten (10) or more person-years of effort per year and at least $5M in budget) automated information systems programs that have had financial and actuarial functionality; five (5) years experience supervising professionals with the technical job categories and skills similar to the scope and size of the project described in Section C; experience shall include migration of legacy applications and databases to web-based technologies. Currently active Project Management Institute (PMI) certification is required. Functions: Overall lead and ultimate responsibility for the work product of the contract team, including all contract and subcontract personnel. Plans and directs the development and implementation of the new BCV solution and other related operations and maintenance projects, including all phases of task order work. Responsibilities include aiding contractual and task order changes and reporting on financial conditions of contracts; ensuring adherence to master plans and schedules; developing solutions to program problems; ensuring the new BCV solution and projects are completed on time and within budget and comply with all business and technical requirements; interacts with government management personnel; reports in writing and orally to contractor management and government representatives, including the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) and other designees. As requested, delivers presentations to senior executives and management on a periodic basis. Must be authorized to negotiate and make binding decisions on behalf of the contracting agency represented. The Senior Project Manager is expected to be a hands-on technical manager and must be capable of performing as technical task lead, in addition to performing contract management and project planning duties. Project Manager Education: A bachelor's degree or higher in Information Technology, Actuarial Science, Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering, Mathematics, Business , or Management. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Ten (10) years of progressively more technical and complex automated information systems software and software management experience encompassing all areas of SDLC and SLCM functions. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to: work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills; provide project and task management including demonstrated
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 65

experience that tasks are completed on-time, within budget, and meet requirements. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years experience in supervising medium to large (averaging five (5) or more person-years of effort per year) automated information systems projects that have had emphasis on objects/components and migration of client/server based systems to web applications. Five (5) years experience supervising professionals with the technical job categories and skills similar to the scope and size of the project described in Section C; technical experience shall include previous work with Visual Basic, Excel, .Net, PowerBuilder, MS-Access, Java, XML and Oracle Database and Oracle application server. Experience shall include migration of legacy applications and databases to web-based technologies. Currently active PMI certification is required. Functions: Responsible for the coordination and completion of the new BCV solution and other related maintenance and operations projects; supervises all aspects of these projects. Sets deadlines, assigns responsibilities, and monitors and summarizes progress of projects and prepares reports for upper management regarding status of project. The Project Manager is expected to be a hands-on technical manager and must be capable of performing as technical task lead. Operations Lead Education: A bachelor's degree or higher in Information Technology, Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering, Mathematics, Business, or Management. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Six (6) years of progressively technical and complex experience in automated information systems production and operations (third tier) application support encompassing all areas of System Development Life Cycle functions. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Four (4) years of experience in supervising large (averaging five (5) or more person-years of effort per year) automated information systems projects and supervising professionals with the technical job categories and skills similar to the scope and size of the effort described in Section C. Specific Experience: In order to update and track service desk tickets, familiarity with Peregrine Service Center Incident Queue (previously known as Problem Management) is required. Functions: Serves as the day-to-day manager for the second-tier support of the webbased and client-server applications. Support includes service desk ticket and analysis and resolution, staff assignments, monitoring production server infrastructure,
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 66

coordinating change management impacts on supported systems, decommissioning expired applications, and operational tasks such as periodic and ad-hoc reports. Revise procedures, operational guides, and supporting documentation as required. The Operations Lead is expected to be a hands-on technical lead and must be capable of performing as technical task lead. Senior Quality Assurance Engineer Education: A bachelor's degree or higher in Information Technology, Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering, Mathematics, Business or Management. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Six (6) years of progressively technical and complex automated information systems software and software management experience encompassing all areas of System Life Cycle Methodology functions, and CMMI practices and its implementation. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills. The individual must possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Four (4) years experience in supervising large (averaging five (5) or more person-years of effort per year) automated information systems projects and professionals with the technical job categories and skills similar to the scope and size of the effort described in Section C. Specific Experience: Shall have knowledge and experience with management of Version Control/management tools (preferably PVCS Version Manager and Tracker), system performance measurement tools (LoadRunner) and automated tools for testing (Quick Test Director, WinRunner, and Quality Center). Functions: Coordinate the testing effort and the quality assurance (QA) effort for the project. Define, enforce and supervise the implementation of the testing and QA processes which should be aligned with PBGC's SLCM and Configuration Management policies. Manage a diverse group of testers and QA personnel in a fast paced, changing environment. Solutions Architect Education: A bachelor's degree or higher in Information Technology, Computer Science, Information Systems, Engineering, Mathematics, Business, or Management. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Ten (10) years of progressively technical and complex automated information systems software and software development and architecture experience that includes architecture knowledge, requirements analysis, systems design, programming language knowledge, experience coding a variety of languages, ability to inspect and approve code builds, knowledge of Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) principles and practical experience, knowledge of Web Services design and development experience.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 67

Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years of progressively more technically complex responsibilities in designing large financial/actuarial systems solution with expertise in successfully migrating applications and databases from legacy environments. Functions: Designs the overall architecture of the components of the system, maps the interfaces, ensures integration with related applications, rationalizes new system with legacy actuarial systems, works with Enterprise Architecture (EA) and ITIOD, evaluates COTS opportunities, etc. Responsible for acting as an advisory resource on project teams for all aspects of IT development. Responsible for clarifying business requirements, performing application analysis and design, acting as the chief designer for the new BCV solution and projects, and creating application/system documentation. Devises or modifies procedures to solve the most complex problems. Participates in and leads project planning sessions for the new BCV solution with clients, business analysts, and team members. Collaborates with Enterprise Architecture to provide recommendations on system options, risks, cost/benefit analysis, and impact on cross-functional business goals and processes. Responsible for conceptual and high-level designs. Researches, analyzes, and validates advanced and emerging technology solutions. Senior Developer Education: A bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Business, or Management. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Eight (8) years of progressively technical and complex systems analysis, design and programming experience. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide technical leadership to more junior staff. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years professional experience serving as a technical lead for large (averaging five (5) or more person-years of effort per year) development projects encompassing all phases of the systems development life cycle and projects shall be similar in size and scope to the effort described in Section C. Project experience shall include integrating components and services, and systems addressing flexible case-by-case requirements. Specific Experience: Five (5) years of experience in performing complex analysis, design, development, testing and implementation of objects/components and web-based computer systems in a UNIX or client/server environment. The individual shall have five (5) years demonstrated experience in development of large web-based systems and

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

68

software projects utilizing products/languages such as Excel, Java, HTML, ASP, XML, and component-based architectures. Functions: Independently performs analytical and programming tasks. Gathers, analyzes and synthesizes information. Analyzes requirements in terms of capacity planning and determines system functions. Designs or modifies system to accomplish desired functions in an optimum manner and in conformance with SLCM project standards. Oversees or performs all programming functions to accomplish specific software requirements. Verifies the accuracy and validity of all software developed, including the preparation of sample test data and the execution of program, job stream and system testing. Prepares all required documentation indicating system functionality. Senior Database Administrator (DBA) Education: A bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Business, or Management. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of the prime contractor. General Experience: Eight (8) years of database design, analysis and programming experience on projects encompassing all phases of the systems development life cycle. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams, provide technical leadership to junior staff for three (3) or more person-years of effort per year. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills and demonstrate government or commercial contract experience utilizing state-ofthe-art technologies or specialized skills in support of IT system development efforts. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years serving as a lead technical DBA resource for large (averaging five or more person-years of effort per year) development projects encompassing all phases of the systems development life cycle and that are similar in size and scope to the project described in Section C. Specific Experience: Five (5) years experience in performing database design, analysis and programming in MS-Access and Oracle 10G or higher, environment. The individual shall have experience to work at the highest level of all phases of database management to include evaluation, systems analysis and design of very complex applications and require a thorough knowledge of related concepts for effective implementation. The individual shall have in depth knowledge of all phases of systems development life cycle phases. Functions: Directs and participates in evaluation and planning in all phases of development with emphasis on analysis, design, integration, testing, and acceptance phases. Designs and prepares technical reports and related documentation to record results, including ad-hoc audit requests. Prepares and delivers presentations and briefings as required.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

69

Senior Managing Actuary Education: A bachelor's degree or higher with certification in one of the categories set forth below. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of either the prime contractor or subcontractor(s). Certification: Either (1) Enrolled Actuary and Fellow of the Society of Actuaries (2) Enrolled Actuary and Associate of the Society of Actuaries (3) Enrolled Actuary and fifteen (15) years of specific experience with pension plans General Experience: Fifteen (15) years of experience managing actuarial or computerrelated projects in the pension area and provide supervision to a group of actuaries and other staff; Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years experience in supervising the development of pension-related computer systems to perform valuations of benefits under pension plans terminated under ERISA/Internal Revenue Code (IRC). The individual shall have at least five (5) years of experience in supervising a team of at least five (5) actuaries in performing termination valuations under ERISA/IRC. Experience shall demonstrate extensive understanding of ERISA and the relevant parts of the IRC. Functions: Overall lead of the actuarial team. Plans and directs actuarial aspects of the new BCV solution, ensuring actuarial accuracy and compliance with laws, regulations and PBGC policies. Supervises other actuaries. Interacts with overall lead to ensure the new BCV solution incorporates proper actuarial input. Ensures actuarial aspects of the new BCV solution are completed in accordance with requirements, on time, and within budget. Interacts with government actuarial personnel. Ensures that the scope of functionality accounts for all possible benefit scenarios that PBGC may encounter. The individual shall be authorized to make actuarial decisions on behalf of the company represented. The Senior Managing Actuary is expected to be a hands-on technical manager and must be capable of performing as a technical task lead, in addition to performing managerial duties. Senior Actuary Education: A bachelor's degree or higher with certification in one of the categories set forth below. The individual shall be a full-time permanent employee of either the prime contractor or subcontractor(s). Certification: Either (1) Enrolled Actuary and Fellow of the Society of Actuaries (2) Enrolled Actuary and Associate of the Society of Actuaries (3) Enrolled Actuary and ten (10) years of specific experience with pension plans
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 70

General Experience: Ten (10) years of experience managing actuarial or computerrelated projects in the pension area, or assisting in the management of such projects, and provide supervision to a group of actuaries and other staff. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Five (5) years of experience in supervising (or assisting in the supervision of) the development of a pension-related computer system to perform valuations of pension benefits under ERISA/Internal Revenue Code (IRC) and in supervising a team of at least five (5) actuaries in performing termination valuations under ERISA/IRC. Experience shall demonstrate extensive understanding of ERISA and the relevant parts of the IRC. Specific Experience: Peer review or direct benefit calculation and valuation experience on at least twenty (20) defined benefit pension plans including seven (7) defined benefit pension plans from at least three (3) major industries, e.g. airlines, automotive, national retailers. Functions: Assists the overall lead of the actuarial team. Remains up-to-date on actuarial aspects of the project in the absence of the Senior Managing Actuary. Assists in planning and directing the actuarial aspects of the project, ensuring actuarial accuracy and input and compliance with laws, regulations, and PBGC policies. Assists Senior Managing Actuary as requested. Supervises other Actuaries. Interacts with government actuarial personnel. The Senior Actuary is expected to be a hands-on technical manager and must be capable of performing as a technical task lead, in addition to performing managerial duties. Business Analyst Education: A bachelor's degree in Computer Science, Engineering, Mathematics, Business, or Management. General Experience: Five (5) years experience supporting complex automated information systems development efforts in a business analyst, systems analyst, or programmer analyst role. Experience shall include demonstrated capability to work independently and in teams and provide organizational and leadership skills. The individual shall possess and utilize excellent oral and written communication skills. Specialized Experience: Three (3) years of experience supporting requirements analysis on a systems implementation project, including the development of materials and scheduling and conducting requirements and feedback sessions with end users. The individual shall have experience with meeting facilitation, business process analysis, system and user acceptance test planning, requirements analysis planning and documentation.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 71

Specific Experience: Three (3) years experience in performing business process and requirements analysis and developing requirements documentation. Functions: Prepares system, user and website documents and specifications, including: requirements documents, business process models, test scripts, and training materials. Attends and documents meetings with users and conducts training sessions, user demonstrations, and system/user acceptance testing. H.18 TASK ORDERING PROCEDURES Task Order procedures include the following: 1. Approved Task Orders. All work performed will only be allowable to the extent that the work is performed pursuant to approved task orders signed by the Contracting Officer. 2. Specific Task Order Procedures (1) The Contractor shall perform the effort indicated in the specific task order. (2) Task orders shall include a not-to-exceed cost limit which includes all fees and travel. Funding thresholds for all task orders may not be exceeded without written authorization of the Contracting Officer. If costs are incurred in excess of the task order threshold, then these costs shall not be allowable. (3) The Contractor shall be provided a task order request for proposal by fax, mail, or electronically. The request shall include: 1. A description of the work to be performed; 2. Background information and known problems; 3. Information on prior related reviews, if applicable; 4. The estimated period of performance or required completion dates; 5. Required deliverables; 6. Progress reporting requirements; 7. Security requirements, if applicable; 8. Any other special requirements, and 9. A time and date for receipt of proposal. (4) The Contractor shall submit a task order proposal which shall provide the following: a. A description of how the firm proposes to accomplish the work; b. Any exceptions taken to the Government's proposed terms; c. A commitment to perform the task within the specified time frame, including milestones/completion dates; d. Names of the work team proposed (resumes are required, in addition to an updated personnel matrix, if staff have not been previously approved to
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 72

work in a labor category or if there is a change in an individual's labor category) e. Performance Work Statement (PWS) and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP), as required and requested. (5) A task order proposal shall remain valid for acceptance by the Contracting Officer for a period of thirty (30) days from the proposal due date. (6) The COTR shall evaluate task order proposals as follows: a. The experience of the individuals proposed with similar work; b. The technical approach to performing the work required by the task order statement of work; c. The results of reference checks on jobs included in the task order as relevant qualifying experience for both the firm and key personnel; d. A commitment to meet the time requirements of the task order; e. Other criteria as may be unique to the task order, such as consideration of contracting restrictions and availability of security clearances. 7) After approval of the proposal to perform a particular task, the Contracting Officer will sign the task order incorporating all relevant documents. The task order shall be issued accepting the Contractor's proposal except when circumstances require the inclusion of terms or conditions not previously agreed to by the parties and made a part of the relevant incorporated documents. 8) The issuance of a task order proposal request does not obligate the Government to issue a task order. The Government may modify, delay action on, or cancel any task order proposal request when deemed to be in the best interest of the Government.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

73

SECTION I CONTRACT CLAUSES BY REFERENCE AND IN FULL TEXT I. 1 52.202-1 DEFINITIONS (JUL 2004)
I.2 52.252-2 CLAUSES INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer shall make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es):
www.arnet.gov/far

I. 3 52.203-3 GRATUITIES (APR 1984) I. 4 52.203-5 COVENANT AGAINST CONTINGENT FEES (APR 1984) I. 5 52.203-6 RESTRICTIONS ON SUBCONTRACTOR SALES TO THE GOVERNMENT (SEP 2006) (a) Except as provided in (b) of this clause, the Contractor shall not enter into any agreement with an actual or prospective subcontractor, nor otherwise act in any manner, which has or may have the effect of restricting sales by such subcontractors directly to the Government of any item or process (including computer software) made or furnished by the subcontractor under this contract or under any follow-on production contract. (b) The prohibition in (a) of this clause does not preclude the Contractor from asserting rights that are otherwise authorized by law or regulation. (c) The Contractor agrees to incorporate the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (c), in all subcontracts under this contract which exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (End of Clause) I. 6 52.203-7 ANTI-KICKBACK PROCEDURES (JUL 1995) I. 7 52.203-8 CANCELLATION, RESCISSION, AND RECOVERY OF FUNDS FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997) I. 8 52.203-10 PRICE OR FEE ADJUSTMENT FOR ILLEGAL OR IMPROPER ACTIVITY (JAN 1997) I. 9 52.203-12 LIMITATION ON PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007) I.10 52.203-13 CONTRACTOR CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS AND CONDUCT I.11 52.203-14 -DISPLAY OF HOTLINE POSTER I. 12 52.204-1 APPROVAL OF CONTRACT (DEC 1989)
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 74

This contract is subject to the written approval of and shall not be binding until so approved. (End of Clause) I. 13 52.204-2 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS (AUG 1996) (Reference 52.204-2) I. 14 52.204-4 PRINTED OR COPIED DOUBLE-SIDED ON RECYCLED PAPER (AUG 2000) I.15 52.204-7 CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION I.16 52.204-9 PERSONAL IDENTITY VERIFICATION OF CONTRACTOR PERSONNEL I. 17 52.207-3 RIGHT OF FIRST REFUSAL OF EMPLOYMENT (MAY 20-06) I. 18 52.209-6 PROTECTING THE GOVERNMENT'S INTEREST WHEN SUBCONTRACTING WITH CONTRACTORS DEBARRED, SUSPENDED, OR PROPOSED FOR DEBARMENT (SEP 2006) I. 19 52.214-34 SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE (APR 1991) I. 20 52.214-35 SUBMISSION OF OFFERS IN U.S. CURRENCY (APR 1991) I. 21 52.215-2 AUDIT AND RECORDS--NEGOTIATION (JUN 1999) I. 22 52.215-8 ORDER OF PRECEDENCE--UNIFORM CONTRACT FORMAT (OCT 1997) I. 23 52.215-10 PRICE REDUCTION FOR DEFECTIVE COST OR PRICING DATA (OCT 1997) I. 24 52.215-12 SUBCONTRACTOR COST OR PRICING DATA I.25 52.215-15 PENSION ADJUSTMENTS AND ASSET REVERSIONS I. 26 52.215-18 REVERSION OR ADJUSTMENT OF PLANS FOR POSTRETIREMENT BENEFITS (PRB) OTHER THAN PENSIONS (JUL 2005) I. 27 52.215-19 NOTIFICATION OF OWNERSHIP CHANGES (OCT 1997) I. 28 52.216-7 ALLOWABLE COST AND PAYMENT I.29 52.216-8 FIXED FEE
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 75

I.30 52.216-10 INCENTIVE FEE I.31 52.216-24 LIMITATION OF GOVERNMENT LIABILITY. As prescribed in 16.603-4(b)(2), insert the following clause in solicitations and contracts when a letter contract is contemplated: Limitation of Government Liability (Apr 1984) (a) In performing this contract, the Contractor is not authorized to make expenditures or incur obligations exceeding ____________________ dollars. (b) The maximum amount for which the Government shall be liable if this contract is terminated is ___________ dollars. (End of clause) I.32 52.216-25 CONTRACT DEFINITIZATION As prescribed in 16.603-4(b)(3), insert the following clause: Contract Definitization (Oct 1997) (a) A ______________ [insert specific type of contract] definitive contract is contemplated. The Contractor agrees to begin promptly negotiating with the Contracting Officer the terms of a definitive contract that will include (1) all clauses required by the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) on the date of execution of the letter contract, (2) all clauses required by law on the date of execution of the definitive contract, and (3) any other mutually agreeable clauses, terms, and conditions. The Contractor agrees to submit a _________ [insert specific type of proposal; e.g., fixed-price or cost-and-fee] proposal and cost or pricing data supporting its proposal. (b) The schedule for definitizing this contract is [insert target date for definitization of the contract and dates for submission of proposal, beginning of negotiations, and, if appropriate, submission of make-or-buy and subcontracting plans and cost or pricing data]: ________________________________________________ ________________________________________________ ________________________________________________ ________________________________________________ (c) If agreement on a definitive contract to supersede this letter contract is not reached by the target date in paragraph (b) of this section, or within any extension of it granted by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer may, with the approval of the head of the contracting activity, determine a reasonable price or fee in accordance with Subpart 15.4 and Part 31 of the FAR, subject to Contractor appeal as provided in the Disputes clause. In any event, the Contractor shall proceed with completion of the contract, subject only to the Limitation of Government Liability clause. (1) After the Contracting Officer's determination of price or fee, the contract shall be governed by-- (i) All clauses required by the FAR on the date of execution of this letter contract for either fixed-price or cost-reimbursement contracts, as determined by the Contracting Officer under this paragraph (c); (ii) All clauses required by law as of the date of the Contracting Officer's determination; and (iii) Any other clauses, terms, and conditions mutually agreed upon.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 76

(2) To the extent consistent with paragraph (c)(1) of this section, all clauses, terms, and conditions included in this letter contract shall continue in effect, except those that by their nature apply only to a letter contract. (End of clause) I.33 52.216-26 PAYMENTS OF ALLOWABLE COSTS I.34 52.217-2 CANCELLATION UNDER MULTI-YEAR CONTRACTS I. 35 52.217-8 OPTION TO EXTEND SERVICES (NOV 1999) I. 36 52.217-9 OPTION TO EXTEND THE TERM OF THE CONTRACT (MAR 2000) I. 37 52.219-4 NOTICE OF PRICE EVALUATION PREFERENCE FOR HUBZONE SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS (JUL 2005) (Reference 52.219-4) I.38 52.219-8 UTILIZATION OF SMALL BUSINESS CONCERNS I.39 52.219-9 SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING PLAN I.40 52.219-16 LIQUIDATED DAMAGES - SUBCONTRACTING PLAN I. 41 52.219-25 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PROGRAM--DISADVANTAGED STATUS AND REPORTING (APR 2008) (a) "Disadvantaged status for joint venture partners, team members, and subcontractors." This clause addresses disadvantaged status for joint venture partners, teaming arrangement members, and subcontractors and is applicable if this contract contains small disadvantaged business (SDB) participation targets. The Contractor shall obtain representations of small disadvantaged status from joint venture partners, teaming arrangement members, and subcontractors through use of a provision substantially the same as paragraph (b)(1)(i) of the provision at FAR 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. The Contractor shall confirm that a joint venture partner, team member, or subcontractor representing itself as a small disadvantaged business concern is a small disadvantaged business concern certified by the Small Business Administration by using the Central Contractor Registration database or by contacting the SBA''s Office of Small Disadvantaged Business Certification and Eligibility. (b) Reporting requirement. If this contract contains SDB participation targets, the Contractor shall report on the participation of SDB concerns at contract completion, or as otherwise provided in this contract. Reporting may be on Optional Form 312, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Report, in the Contractor''s own format providing the same information, or accomplished through using the Electronic Subcontracting Reporting System''s Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Report. This report is required for each contract containing SDB participation targets. If this contract contains an individual Small Business Subcontracting Plan, reports shall be submitted with the final Individual Subcontract Report at the completion of the contract.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 77

(End of Clause) I. 42 52.219-26 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS PARTICIPATION PROGRAM--INCENTIVE SUBCONTRACTING (OCT 2000) (a) Of the total dollars it plans to spend under subcontracts, the Contractor has committed itself in its offer to try to award a certain amount to small disadvantaged business concerns in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Subsectors as determined by the Department of Commerce. (b) If the Contractor exceeds its total monetary target for subcontracting to small disadvantaged business concerns in the authorized, NAICS Industry Subsectors, it will receive percent of the dollars in excess of the monetary target, unless the Contracting Officer determines that the excess was not due to the Contractor's efforts (e.g., a subcontractor cost overrun caused the actual subcontract amount to exceed that estimated in the offer, or the excess was caused by the award of subcontracts that had been planned but had not been disclosed in the offer during contract negotiations). Determinations made under this paragraph are unilateral decisions made solely at the discretion of the Government. (c) If this is a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract, the sum of the fixed fee and the incentive fee earned under this contract may not exceed the limitations in subsection 15.404-4 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (End of Clause) I.43 52.219-28 POST-AWARD SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATION I.44 52.222-2 PAYMENT FOR OVERTIME PREMIUMS I.45 52.222-3 CONVICT LABOR (JUN 2003) I. 46 52.222-20 WALSH-HEALEY PUBLIC CONTRACTS ACT (DEC 1996) I. 47 52.222-21 PROHIBITION OF SEGREGATED FACILITIES (FEB 1999) I. 48 52.222-26 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (MAR 2007) I.49 52.222-35 EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR SPECIAL DISABLED VETERANS I. 50 52.222-36 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION FOR WORKERS WITH DISABILITIES (JUN 1998) I.51 52.222-37 EMPLOYMENT REPORTS ON SPECIAL DISABLED VETERANS, ET AL. I.52 52.222-39 NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE RIGHTS DUES OR FEES I. 53 52.222-41 SERVICE CONTRACT ACT OF 1965 (NOV 2007)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

78

I.54 52.222-42 STATEMENT OF EQUIVALENT RATES FOR FEDERAL HIRES I.55 52.222-43 FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AND SERVICE CONTRACT ACT I. 56 52.222-44 FAIR LABOR STANDARDS ACT AND SERVICE CONTRACT ACT-PRICE ADJUSTMENT (FEB 2002) I. 57 52.223-5 POLLUTION PREVENTION AND RIGHT-TO-KNOW INFORMATION (AUG 2003) I. 58 52.223-6 DRUG-FREE WORKPLACE (MAY 2001) I.59.223-14 TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING I. 60 52.224-1 PRIVACY ACT NOTIFICATION (APR 1984) I.61 52.224-2 PRIVACY ACT I. 62 52.225-3 BUY AMERICAN ACT--FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS--ISRAELI TRADE ACT [AUG 2007] I.63 52.225-13 -- RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN FOREIGN PURCHASES I.64 52.227-1 AUTHORIZATION AND CONSENT I. 65 52.227-14 RIGHTS IN DATA--GENERAL (DEC 2007) (Reference 52.227-14) I.66 52.227-17 RIGHTS IN DATA ­ SPECIAL WORKS I.67 52.227-19 COMMERCIAL COMPUTER SOFTWARE LICENSE I.68 52.227-23 RIGHTS TO PROPOSAL DATA I.69 52.228-5 INSURANCE ­ WORK ON A GOVERNMENT INSTALLATION I.70 52.228-7 INSURANCE ­ LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES I.71 52.229-3 FEDERAL, STATE AND LOCAL TAXES I.72 52.230-2 COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS I.73 52.230-3 DISCLOSURE AND CONSISTENCY IN CAS I.74 52.230-6 ADMINISTRATION OF CAS

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

79

I 75 52.232-1 PAYMENTS I. 76 52.232-8 DISCOUNTS FOR PROMPT PAYMENT (FEB 2002) I..77 52.232-9 LIMITATION ON WITHHOLDING OF PAYMENTS I.78 52.232-11 EXTRAS I.79 52.232-16 PROGRESS PAYMENTS I 80 52.232-17 INTEREST (OCT 2008) I.81 52.232-18 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS I.82 52.232-19 AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE NEXT FISCAL YEAR I.83 52.232-20 LIMITATION OF COST I.84 52.232-22 LIMITATION OF FUNDS I 85 52.232-23 ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS (JAN 1986) I.86 52.232-24 PROHIBITION OF ASSIGNMENT OF CLAIMS I 87 52.232-25 PROMPT PAYMENT (OCT 2008) I 88 52.232-33 PAYMENT BY ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER--CENTRAL CONTRACTOR REGISTRATION (OCT 2003) I. 89 52.233-1 DISPUTES (JUL 2002) I. 90 52.233-3 PROTEST AFTER AWARD (AUG 1996) I. 91 52.233-4 APPLICABLE LAW FOR BREACH OF CONTRACT CLAIM (OCT 2004) I.92 52.237-1 SITE VISIT I.93 52.237-2 PROTECTION OF GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS, EQUIPMENT, AND VEGETATION I.94 52.239-1 PRIVACY OR SECURITY SAFEGUARDS I. 95 52.242-1 NOTICE OF INTENT TO DISALLOW COSTS. I.96 52.242-2 PRODUCTION PROGRESS REPORTS
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 80

I.97 52.242-3 PENALTIES FOR UNALLOWABLE COSTS I. 98 52.242-13 BANKRUPTCY (JUL 1995) I.99 52.243-1, ALT. I CHANGES ­ FIXED PRICE I.100 52.243-2, Alt. I CHANGES ­ COST REIMBURSEMENT I.101 52.244-6 SUBCONTRACTS FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS I 102 52.245-1 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY (JUN 2007) I.103 52.245-9 USE AND CHARGES I. 104 52.249-1 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE OF THE GOVERNMENT (FIXED-PRICE) (SHORT FORM) (APR 1984) I.105 52.249-2 TERMINATION FOR CONVENIENCE ­ FIXED PRICE I 106 52.249-6 TERMINATION (COST-REIMBURSEMENT) (MAY 2004) I.107 52.249-8 DEFAULT ­ FIXED-PRICE SUPPLY AND SERVICE I. 108 52.249-14 EXCUSABLE DELAYS (APR 1984) I. 109 52.251-1 GOVERNMENT SUPPLY SOURCES (APR 1984) I. 110 52.252-1 SOLICITATION PROVISIONS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE (FEB 1998) I. 111 52.252-4 ALTERATIONS IN CONTRACT (APR 1984)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

81

SECTION J ­ ATTACHMENTS ˇ PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE

Past performance information from the Offeror from existing and prior contracts will be used for both a responsibility determination and as an evaluation factor to determine whether the Offeror's selection would provide the best value to the Government. The Government will focus on information that demonstrates the Offeror's technical and managerial performance and customer satisfaction relative to the size and complexity of the contract work. Evaluators will review all questionnaire responses timely received and will consider the information provided in light of the similarity between the work performed and the objectives set forth in section C of this solicitation; when the referenced work was performed; any trends, if evident, in the contractor's performance; the overall rating given the Offeror by each contract client reference; and any information known to the evaluators from other sources. Only three (3) of the Offeror's most recent clients shall be provided a questionnaire to complete. The contract work performed for the client receiving the questionnaire must be ongoing or have been completed within the past three (3) years, and the contract work must have been ongoing for at least one (1) year. To the extent possible, the Offeror should identify contract clients for whom the Offeror performed services substantially similar to the services required by section C of this solicitation. If the Offeror does not have three (3) client references, the Offeror shall identify as many references as possible. Contract client references may include the Federal government, agencies of state or local governments or commercial entities and the contract experience may have been as part of a team or joint venture. INSTRUCTIONS TO THE OFFEROR Each Offeror shall forward this Past Performance Questionnaire to no more than three (3) contract client references. To the extent possible, the Offeror should identify clients for whom, during the past three (3) years, the Offeror has performed work substantially similar to the work described in section C of this solicitation. Each reference must return the completed questionnaire by email to the Contract Specialist indicated at box 10 of the SF-33. The deadline for receiving this questionnaire also is set forth below. These completed questionnaires shall be used as part of the evaluation process during Phase I. PAST PERFORMANCE QUESTIONNAIRE Agency: Address: E-Mail: Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation Procurement Department, Suite 1090 1200 K Street, NW Washington, DC 20005 Kvalevog.Fiorela@pbgc.gov

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

82

INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLETING THIS QUESTIONNAIRE A representative of the client for whom the work is being performed or was performed shall complete all sections of this questionnaire. If the client receiving this questionnaire is a federal agency, then this questionnaire should be completed by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR). Sections B and C of the questionnaire shall be completed using the rating schedule found below by choosing the adjective that best describes the contractor's work. Check the box that describes the appropriate rating. If a specific question does not pertain to the contract, please respond to the question by noting that it is not applicable ("N/A"). When possible, please provide a brief explanation for the ratings in the comment area. Section D shall be completed using the rating schedule found below or simply by checking the Yes or No bracket where appropriate. Please pay special attention to the question concerning the overall rating of the contractor. A brief explanation for rating in the comment area would be especially helpful. Section E, including signature and date, provides essential contact information in the event that the Agency needs to clarify any comments provided. The adjective rating scale for all sections is defined below: Outstanding The contractor's past performance indicates a record of meeting client requirements with a high degree of success and high customer satisfaction. Satisfactory The contractor's past performance indicates a record of meeting client requirements with a moderate degree of success and moderate customer satisfaction. Unsatisfactory The contractor's past performance indicates a record of meeting client requirements with some degree of satisfaction and some degree of customer satisfaction. PAST PERFORMANCE INFORMATION

A. CONTRACT INFORMATION 1. Name of the Contractor being evaluated

2.

Is the Contractor a primary contractor or a subcontractor?
83

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

__________________________________________________________________ 3. 4. Contract number (if applicable): _______________________________________ Contract type (if applicable): ( ( ( ( ( ( 5. 6. 7. ) ) ) ) ) ) Fixed Price ( ) CPAF Cost Reimbursement ( ) ID/IQ CPFF ­ Completion ( ) BOA CPFF ­ Term ( ) Labor Hour CPIF ( ) T&M Other: (Please specify: ________________________________________

Period of performance (include option years, if any):_______________________ Estimated annual contract amount or amount of annual services:_____________ Brief description of the contract services provided: __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

8. 9. 10.

Was the contract a performance-based contract? ( ) Yes ( ) No Did the contract include a ( ) Statement of Work, ( ) Performance Work Statement or a ( ) Statement of Objectives? Type of award: ( ( ( ( ) ) ) ) Competitive Non-Competitive 8(a) Other

11.

Name and phone number of COTR or primary contact at the client organization: __________________________________________________________________

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

84

B. 1.

TECHNICAL PERFORMANCE How effective was the Contractor in understanding the business requirements of your organization and integrating them with the technical requirements of the contract work? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

2.

How technically qualified were the Contract personnel initially and throughout the contract? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment_________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________________________

3.

To what extent did the Contractor complete work and provide deliverables on time? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

4.

To what extent were the contractor reports and technical documentation accurate and complete? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

85

__________________________________________________________________ 5. To what extent did the Contractor identify and provide options for solving problems effectively and efficiently? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 6. To what extent did the Contractor use effective escalation procedures when problems arose? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 7. Given the Contractor's options for solving problems, how successful was the Contractor in solving problems? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 8. To what extent did the Contractor conform to the requirements or satisfy the objectives of the contract? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

86

C. 1.

MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE To what extent was the Contractor able to recruit and maintain qualified and reliable personnel for the duration of the contract? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Was recruitment timely? ( ) Yes ( ) No Was turnover rate low? ( ) Yes ( ) No Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

2.

To what extent was the Contractor able to manage the overall performance of the contract? Include consideration of such issues as planning, scheduling, monitoring, invoicing, and reporting. Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

3.

To what extent was the Contractor effective in interfacing with your staff and other contractors and creating a successful team approach? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

4.

To what extent did the Contractor coordinate, integrate, and provide for effective subcontractor management? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

87

_________________________________________________________________ D. 1. CUSTOMER SATISFACTION How would you rate the Contractor's ability to demonstrate a cooperative, business-like attitude and respect for the interests of your agency or company? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 2. Has the Contractor ever been given a cure notice, show cause notice, suspension of progress payments, letters of direction, or other written notification of unsatisfactory performance or progress? ( ) Yes ( ) No Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 3. Have you ever terminated a contract with this Contractor on this or any other contract? ( ) Yes ( ) No Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 4. Were there any other problems on the contract in connection with this Contractor? ( ) Yes ( ) No Comment__________________________________________________________

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

88

__________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 5. Given your comments on this questionnaire, how would you rate the over-all performance of the Contractor on this contract? Rating: ( ) Outstanding ( ) Satisfactory ( ) Unsatisfactory Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 6. Would you recommend the Contractor for additional contracts? ( ) Yes ( ) No Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ 7. Please use the following space to provide any additional information that you feel would be beneficial to PBGC in making its decision on the award of its contract to this Contractor. Comment__________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ __________________________________________________________________ E. CLIENT INFORMATION The following information refers to the individual completing this questionnaire: __________________________________________________________________ Name and Title (Printed) __________________________________________________________________
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 89

Organization (Agency or Company) __________________________________________________________________ Telephone Number __________________________________________________________________ E-mail Address __________________________________________________________________ Signature and Date On or before the closing date, April 29, 2010 at 10:00am ET., the client shall send this questionnaire by e-mail to the Contract Specialist, Fiorela Kvalevog, kvalevog.fiorela@pbgc.gov, at the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation. Please ensure that the contract specialist successfully receives this questionnaire by the identified date and time. Thank you for your time and attention in completing the questions in this evaluation. Fiorela Kvalevog Contract Specialist Procurement Department Pension Benefit Guaranty Corp. 1200 K Street, N.W., Suite 1090 Washington, DC 20005 E-Mail: Kvalevog.Fiorela@pbgc.gov

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

90

ˇ

BENEFIT CALCULATION AND VALUATION (BCV) SOLUTION COMPLIANCE TRACEABILITY MATRIX - PHASE I

By completing the following matrix, the Offeror shall demonstrate how its proposal satisfies the requirements for evaluation set forth in section M of the Solicitation.
Section Number of the Requirement In Section C Section Number of the Evaluation Criteria in Section M Description of the Evaluation Criteria Section in Offeror's Proposal Addressing the Evaluation Criteria
Page Number

M.2.1. M.2.1.1. C.5.1. C.5.1. C.5.5. C.5.1. C.5. C.5. C.5.1. M.2.1.2. M.2.1.2.A. C.5. M.2.1.1.A.

M.2.1.1.B.

M.2.1.2.B. C.5.4.2.1., C.5.4.2.2., C.5.4.2.6., C.5.4.2.10., C.5.4.2.12.,
PBGC01-RP-09-0025

PHASE ONE - EVALUATION FACTORS Technical Information FACTOR ONE - Proposed Methodologies and Performance Requirements Proposed Methodologies 1. Planning Phase Methodology 2. Software Development Methodology 3. Operations, Production Support Services and Maintenance Methodology Performance Requirements 1. High-Level Technical, Business and Management Strategy 2. Incentives 3. Monitoring Program 4. PWS and QASP FACTOR TWO ­ Professional Experience Technical Aspects of Delivering A New Software System 1. Planning and Delivering a Phased Approach 2. Experience in Utilizing Project Management 3. Interfacing/Integrating Applications 4. Migrating Databases 5. Resolving Operational Problems Adherence to Technical Standards and Methodologies 1. Meeting Technical Standards and Methodologies

91

C.5.4.2.14. C.5.4.2.4. C.5.3.1., C.5.3.2., C.5.3.3. C.5.3.1., C.5.3.2., C.5.3.3. C.5.3.1.2. C.5. C.5. C.5. C.5. C.5. M.2.1.2.C.

2. Meeting Federal Government Standards Adherence to Business Standards 1. Experience with Certain Actuarial Calculations 2. Experience with Other, Specific Actuarial Calculations 3. Developing Flexible Benefit Calculations and Valuation Algorithms Corporate Resources 1. Staffing Arrangements 2. Use of Subcontractors and Other Personnel 3. Shifting Resources to Meet Changing Needs 4. Managing Cross-Functional Teams 5. Managing Projects Similar to BCV Solution 6. Experience with PWS and QASP 7. Delivered complex, high quality software projects on time Professional Development and Training 1. Training Employees 2. Training Requirements for Subcontractors 3. Training Key Personnel 4. Training Key Personnel ­ Subcontractors 5. Future Training of Key Personnel Transition Planning 1. Experience with Contract Vendors 2. Detailed Transition Plan FACTOR THREE - Past Performance FACTOR FOUR ­ Qualifications of Key Personnel 1. Resumes provided 2. Requirements in section H met 3. Qualifications and Experience 4. Commitment Letters FACTOR FIVE - Cost and Pricing Information

M.2.1.2.D.

M.2.1.2.E.

M.2.1.2.F.

M.2.1.3. M.2.2. H.17.

M.2.3.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

92

SECTION K REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS K. 1 52.203-1 {52.203-1} [RESERVED] (Reference 52.203-1) K. 2 52.203-11 CERTIFICATION AND DISCLOSURE REGARDING PAYMENTS TO INFLUENCE CERTAIN FEDERAL TRANSACTIONS (SEP 2007) (Reference 52.203-11) K. 3 52.203-2 CERTIFICATE OF INDEPENDENT PRICE DETERMINATION (APR 1985) (a) The offeror certifies that-(1) The prices in this offer have been arrived at independently, without, for the purpose of restricting competition, any consultation, communication, or agreement with any other offeror or competitor relating to-(i) Those prices; (ii) The intention to submit an offer;, or (iii) The methods or factors used to calculate the prices offered. (2) The prices in this offer have not been and will not be knowingly disclosed by the offeror, directly or indirectly, to any other offeror or competitor before bid opening (in the case of a sealed bid solicitation) or contract award (in the case of a negotiated solicitation) unless otherwise required by law; and (3) No attempt has been made or will be made by the offeror to induce any other concern to submit or not to submit an offer for the purpose of restricting competition. (b) Each signature on the offer is considered to be a certification by the signatory that the signatory-(1) Is the person in the offeror''s organization responsible for determining the prices being offered in this bid or proposal, and that the signatory has not participated and will not participate in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision; or (2) (i) Has been authorized, in writing, to act as agent for the following principals in certifying that those principals have not participated, and will not participate in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision ____________________ [insert full name of person(s) in the offeror''s organization responsible for determining the prices offered in this bid or proposal, and the title of his or her position in the offeror''s organization]; (ii) As an authorized agent, does certify that the principals named in subdivision (b)(2)(i) of this provision have not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision; and (iii) As an agent, has not personally participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to paragraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision. (c) If the offeror deletes or modifies paragraph (a)(2) of this provision, the offeror must furnish with its offer a signed statement setting forth in detail the circumstances of the disclosure. (End of Provision) K. 4 52.204-3 TAXPAYER IDENTIFICATION (OCT 1998)
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 93

(a) "Definitions." "Common parent," as used in this provision, means that corporate entity that owns or controls an affiliated group of corporations that files its Federal income tax returns on a consolidated basis, and of which the offeror is a member. "Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)," as used in this provision, means the number required by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to be used by the offeror in reporting income tax and other returns. The TIN may be either a Social Security Number or an Employer Identification Number. (b) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (d) through (f) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d), reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the IRS. If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 4.904, the failure or refusal by the offeror to furnish the information may result in a 31 percent reduction of payments otherwise due under the contract. (c) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror''s relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror''s TIN. (d) "Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN)." /_/ TIN: _____________________. /_/ TIN has been applied for. /_/ TIN is not required because: /_/ Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; /_/ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; /_/ Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (e) "Type of organization." /_/ Sole proprietorship; /_/ Partnership; /_/ Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); /_/ Corporate entity (tax-exempt); /_/ Government entity (Federal, State, or local); /_/ Foreign government; /_/ International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; /_/ Other _________________________. (f) "Common parent." /_/ Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent as defined in paragraph (a) of this provision. /_/ Name and TIN of common parent: Name _____________________________ TIN ______________________________ (End of Provision)
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 94

K. 5 52.204-5 WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESS (OTHER THAN SMALL BUSINESS) (MAY 1999) (Reference 52.204-5) 52.204-8 Annual Representations and Certifications. As prescribed in 4.1202, insert the following provision: Annual Representations and Certifications (Feb 2009) (a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is __________________ [insert NAICS code]. (2) The small business size standard is _____________ [insert size standard]. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b)(1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (d) of this provision applies. (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (d) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of the following boxes: [ ] (i) Paragraph (d) applies. [ ] (ii) Paragraph (d) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the solicitation. (c)(1) The following representations or certifications in ORCA are applicable to this solicitation as indicated: (i) 52.203-2, Certificate of Independent Price Determination. This provision applies to solicitations when a firm-fixed-price contract or fixed-price contract with economic price adjustment is contemplated, unless-- (A) The acquisition is to be made under the simplified acquisition procedures in Part 13; (B) The solicitation is a request for technical proposals under two-step sealed bidding procedures; or (C) The solicitation is for utility services for which rates are set by law or regulation. (ii) 52.203-11, Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions. This provision applies to solicitations expected to exceed $100,000. (iii) 52.204-3, Taxpayer Identification. This provision applies to solicitations that do not include the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration. (iv) 52.204-5, Women-Owned Business (Other Than Small Business). This provision applies to solicitations that-- (A) Are not set aside for small business concerns; (B) Exceed the simplified acquisition threshold; and (C) Are for contracts that will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (v) 52.209-5, Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters. This provision applies to solicitations where the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

95

(vi) 52.214-14, Place of Performance--Sealed Bidding. This provision applies to invitations for bids except those in which the place of performance is specified by the Government. (vii) 52.215-6, Place of Performance. This provision applies to solicitations unless the place of performance is specified by the Government. (viii) 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representations (Basic & Alternate I). This provision applies to solicitations when the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (A) The basic provision applies when the solicitations are issued by other than DoD, NASA, and the Coast Guard. (B) The provision with its Alternate I applies to solicitations issued by DoD, NASA, or the Coast Guard. (ix) 52.219-2, Equal Low Bids. This provision applies to solicitations when contracting by sealed bidding and the contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. (x) 52.222-22, Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports. This provision applies to solicitations that include the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xi) 52.222-25, Affirmative Action Compliance. This provision applies to solicitations, other than those for construction, when the solicitation includes the clause at 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity. (xii) 52.222-38, Compliance with Veterans' Employment Reporting Requirements. This provision applies to solicitations when it is anticipated the contract award will exceed the simplified acquisition threshold and the contract is not for acquisition of commercial items. (xiii) 52.223-1, Biobased Product Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that require the delivery or specify the use of USDA­designated items; or include the clause at 52.223-2, Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service and Construction Contracts. (xiv) 52.223-4, Recovered Material Certification. This provision applies to solicitations that are for, or specify the use of, EPA­designated items. (xv) 52.225-2, Buy American Act Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-1. (xvi) 52.225-4, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Basic, Alternate I, and Alternate II) This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-3. (A) If the acquisition value is less than $25,000, the basic provision applies. (B) If the acquisition value is $25,000 or more but is less than $50,000, the provision with its Alternate I applies. (C) If the acquisition value is $50,000 or more but is less than $67,826, the provision with its Alternate II applies. (xvii) 52.225-6, Trade Agreements Certificate. This provision applies to solicitations containing the clause at 52.225-5. (xviii) 52.225-20, Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan-- Certification. (xix) 52.226-2, Historically Black College or University and Minority Institution Representation. This provision applies to--
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 96

(A) Solicitations for research, studies, supplies, or services of the type normally acquired from higher educational institutions; and (B) For DoD, NASA, and Coast Guard acquisitions, solicitations that contain the clause at 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. (2) The following certifications are applicable as indicated by the Contracting Officer: [Contracting Officer check as appropriate.] __ (i) 52.219-19, Small Business Concern Representation for the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. __ (ii) 52.219-21, Small Business Size Representation for Targeted Industry Categories Under the Small Business Competitiveness Demonstration Program. __ (iii) 52.219-22, Small Disadvantaged Business Status. __ (A) Basic. __ (B) Alternate I. __ (iv) 52.222-18, Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products. __ (v) 52.222-48, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment Certification. __ (vi) 52.222-52, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services­Certification. __ (vii) 52.223-9, with its Alternate I, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­Designated Products (Alternate I only). __ (viii) 52.223-13, Certification of Toxic Chemical Release Reporting. __ (ix) 52.227-6, Royalty Information. __ (A) Basic. __(B) Alternate I. __ (x) 52.227-15, Representation of Limited Rights Data and Restricted Computer Software. (d) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically that apply to this solicitation as indicated in paragraph (c) of this provision have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. FAR Clause # Title Date Change ____________ _________ _____ _______ Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of provision)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

97

K. 6 52.209-5 CERTIFICATION REGARDING RESPONSIBILITY MATTERS (DEC 2008) (a) (1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that-(i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals-(A) Are /_/ are not /_/ presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (B) Have /_/ have not /_/, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a public (Federal, state, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and (C) Are /_/ are not /_/ presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with, commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision. (D) Have /_/, have not /_/, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (2) Examples. (i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. 6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. 6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. 6159.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

98

The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (ii) The Offeror has /_/ has not /_/, within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for default by any Federal agency. (2) "Principal," for the purposes of this certification, means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a subsidiary, division, or business segment; and similar positions). This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False, Fictitious, or Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States Code. (b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances. (c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror's responsibility. Failure of the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror non responsible. (d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings. (e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award. If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default. (End of Provision) K. 7 52.215-6 PLACE OF PERFORMANCE (OCT 1997) (a) The offeror or respondent, in the performance of any contract resulting from this solicitation, /_/ intends, /_/ does not intend to use one or more plants or facilities located at a different address from the address of the offeror or respondent as indicated in this proposal or response to request for information. (b) If the offeror or respondent checks "intends" in paragraph (a) of this provision, it shall insert in the following spaces the required information: ____________________________________________________________ | Place of Performance | Name and Address of Owner and | | (Street Address, City, | Operator of the Plant or | | State, County, Zip Code) | Facility if Other than |
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 99

| | Offeror or Respondent | |__________________________|_________________________________| ||| ||| |__________________________|_________________________________| ||| ||| |__________________________|_________________________________| (End of Provision) K. 8 52.215-7 {52.215-7} [RESERVED] K. 9 52.219-1 SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (MAY 2004) (a) (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is (2) The small business size standard is (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a small business concern. (2) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it /_/ is, /_/ is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (5) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (6) The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It /_/ is, /_/ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It /_/ is, /_/ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture:__________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-PBGC01-RP-09-0025 100

"Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm''s status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall-(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of Provision)

K. 10 52.219-1 I SMALL BUSINESS PROGRAM REPRESENTATIONS (MAY 2004)-ALTERNATE I (APR 2002)
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 101

(a) (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is (2) The small business size standard is (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a small business concern. (2) The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it /_/ is, /_/ is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (5) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it /_/ is, /_/ is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (6) The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-(i) It /_/ is, /_/ is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It /_/ is, /_/ is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate for the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture:__________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (7) [Complete if offeror represented itself as disadvantaged in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision.] The offeror shall check the category in which its ownership falls: /_/ Black American. /_/ Hispanic American. /_/ Native American (American Indians, Eskimos, Aleuts, or Native Hawaiians). /_/ Asian-Pacific American (persons with origins from Burma, Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Brunei, Japan, China, Taiwan, Laos, Cambodia (Kampuchea), Vietnam, Korea, The Philippines, U.S. Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands (Republic of Palau), Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Samoa, Macao, Hong Kong, Fiji, Tonga, Kiribati, Tuvalu, or Nauru). /_/ Subcontinent Asian (Asian-Indian) American (persons with origins from India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka, Bhutan, the Maldives Islands, or Nepal). /_/ Individual/concern, other than one of the preceding. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-PBGC01-RP-09-0025 102

"Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-(1) Means a small business concern-(i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans."Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-(1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm''s status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a), 8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall-(i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of Provision) K. 11 52.219-19 SMALL BUSINESS CONCERN REPRESENTATION FOR THE SMALL BUSINESS COMPETITIVENESS DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM (OCT 2000) (a) "Definition." "Emerging small business" as used in this solicitation, means a small business concern whose size is no greater than 50 percent of the numerical size standard
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 103

applicable to the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code assigned to a contracting opportunity. (b) [Complete only if the Offeror has represented itself under the provision at 52.219-1 as a small business concern under the size standards of this solicitation.] The Offeror /_/ is, /_/ is not an emerging small business. (c) [Complete only if the Offeror is a small business or an emerging small business, indicating its size range.] Offeror''s number of employees for the past 12 months [check this column if size standard stated in solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees] or Offeror''s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years [check this column if size standard stated in solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts]. [Check one of the following.] ___________________________________________________________ | No. of Employees | Avg. Annual Gross Revenues | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 50 or fewer | ____ $1 million or less | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 51 - 100 | ____ $1,000,001 - $2 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 101 - 250 | ____ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 251 - 500 | ____ $3,500,001 - $5 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 501 - 750 | ____ $5,000,001 - $10 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 751 - 1,000 | ____ $10,000,001 - $17 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ Over 1,000 | ____ Over $17 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| (End of Provision) K. 12 52.219-21 SMALL BUSINESS SIZE REPRESENTATION FOR TARGETED INDUSTRY CATEGORIES UNDER THE SMALL BUSINESS COMPETITIVENESS DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM (MAY 1999) [Complete only if the Offeror has represented itself under the provision at 52.219-1 as a small business concern under the size standards of this solicitation.] Offeror''s number of employees for the past 12 months [check this column if size standard stated in solicitation is expressed in terms of number of employees] or Offeror''s average annual gross revenue for the last 3 fiscal years [check this column if size standard stated in solicitation is expressed in terms of annual receipts]. [Check one of the following.] ___________________________________________________________ | No. of Employees | Avg. Annual Gross Revenues | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 50 or fewer | ____ $1 million or less | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 51 - 100 | ____ $1,000,001 - $2 million |
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 104

|_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 101 - 250 | ____ $2,000,001 - $3.5 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 251 - 500 | ____ $3,500,001 - $5 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 501 - 750 | ____ $5,000,001 - $10 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ 751 - 1,000 | ____ $10,000,001 - $17 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| | ____ Over 1,000 | ____ Over $17 million | |_______________________|___________________________________| (End of Provision) K. 13 52.219-22 SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS (OCT 1999) (a) ''General." This provision is used to assess an offeror''s small disadvantaged business status for the purpose of obtaining a benefit on this solicitation. Status as a small business and status as a small disadvantaged business for general statistical purposes is covered by the provision at FAR 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representation. (b) Representations. (1) "General." The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a small business under the size standard applicable to this acquisition; and either-/_/ (i) It has received certification by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern consistent with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B; and (A) No material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification; (B) Where the concern is owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (C) It is identified, on the date of its representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRONet); or /_/ (ii) It has submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material age in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (2) /_/ "For Joint Ventures." The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements at 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: _________________________.]

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

105

(c) "Penalties and Remedies." Anyone who misrepresents any aspects of the disadvantaged status of a concern for the purposes of securing a contract or subcontract shall-(1) Be punished by imposition of a fine, imprisonment, or both; (2) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (3) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Small Business Act. (End of Provision) K. 14 52.219-22 I SMALL DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS STATUS (OCT 1999)-ALTERNATE I (OCT 1998) (a) ''General." This provision is used to assess an offeror''s small disadvantaged business status for the purpose of obtaining a benefit on this solicitation. Status as a small business and status as a small disadvantaged business for general statistical purposes is covered by the provision at FAR 52.219-1, Small Business Program Representation. (b) Representations. (1) "General." The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a small business under the size standard applicable to this acquisition; and either-/_/ (i) It has received certification by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern consistent with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B; and (A) No material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification; (B) Where the concern is owned by one or more disadvantaged individuals, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); and (C) It is identified, on the date of its representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the database maintained by the Small Business Administration (PRONet); or /_/ (ii) It has submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (2) /_/ "For Joint Ventures." The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements at 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: _________________________.] (3) "Address." The offeror represents that its address /_/ is, /_/ is not in a region for which a small disadvantaged business procurement mechanism is authorized and its address has not changed since its certification as a small disadvantaged business concern or submission of its application for certification. The list of authorized small disadvantaged business procurement mechanisms and regions is posted at http://www.arnet.gov/References/sdbadjustments.htm. The offeror shall use the list in
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 106

effect on the date of this solicitation. "Address," as used in this provision, means the address of the offeror as listed on the Small Business Administration''s register of small disadvantaged business concerns or the address on the completed application that the concern has submitted to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier in accordance with 13 CFR part 124, subpart B. For joint ventures, "address" refers to the address of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. (c) "Penalties and Remedies." Anyone who misrepresents any aspects of the disadvantaged status of a concern for the purposes of securing a contract or subcontract shall-(1) Be punished by imposition of a fine, imprisonment, or both; (2) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (3) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Small Business Act. (End of Provision) K. 15 52.222-22 PREVIOUS CONTRACTS AND COMPLIANCE REPORTS (FEB 1999) The offeror represents that-(a) It /_/ has, /_/ has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; (b) It /_/ has, /_/ has not filed all required compliance reports; and (c) Representations indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained before subcontract awards. (End of Provision) K. 16 52.222-25 AFFIRMATIVE ACTION COMPLIANCE (APR 1984) The offeror represents that-(a) It /_/ has developed and has on file, /_/ has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2); or (b) It /_/ has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (End of Provision) K. 17 52.222-38 COMPLIANCE WITH VETERANS' EMPLOYMENT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS (DEC 2001) (Reference 52.222-38) K. 18 52.223-13 CERTIFICATION OF TOXIC CHEMICAL RELEASE REPORTING (AUG 2003) (a) Executive Order 13148, of April 21, 2000, Greening the Government through Leadership in Environmental Management, requires submission of this certification as a prerequisite for contract award. (b) By signing this offer, the offeror certifies that-PBGC01-RP-09-0025 107

(1) As the owner or operator of facilities that will be used in the performance of this contract that are subject to the filing and reporting requirements described in section 313 of the Emergency Planning and Community Right-to-Know Act of 1986 (EPCRA) (42 U.S.C. 11023) and section 6607 of the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990 (PPA) (42 U.S.C. 13106), the offeror will file and continue to file for such facilities for the life of the contract the Toxic Chemical Release Inventory Form (Form R) as described in sections 313(a) and (g) of EPCRA and section 6607 of PPA; or (2) None of its owned or operated facilities to be used in the performance of this contract is subject to the Form R filing and reporting requirements because each such facility is exempt for at least one of the following reasons: [Check each block that is applicable.] /_/ (i) The facility does not manufacture, process, or otherwise use any toxic chemicals listed in 40 CFR 372.65; /_/ (ii) The facility does not have 10 or more full-time employees as specified in section 313(b)(1)(A) of EPCRA, 42 U.S.C. 11023(b)(1)(A); /_/ (iii) The facility does not meet the reporting thresholds of toxic chemicals established under section 313(f) of EPCRA, 42 U.S.C. 11023(f) (including the alternate thresholds at 40 CFR 372.27, provided an appropriate certification form has been filed with EPA); /_/ (iv) The facility does not fall within the following Standard Industrial Classification (SIC) codes or their corresponding North American Industry Classification System sectors: (A) Major group code 10 (except 1011, 1081, and 1094. (B) Major group code 12 (except 1241). (C) Major group codes 20 through 39. (D) Industry code 4911, 4931, or 4939 (limited to facilities that combust coal and/or oil for the purpose of generating power for distribution in commerce). (E) Industry code 4953 (limited to facilities regulated under the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Subtitle C (42 U.S.C. 6921, et seq.), or 5169, or 5171, or 7389 (limited to facilities primarily engaged in solvent recovery services on a contract or fee basis); or /_/ (v) The facility is not located in the United States or its outlying areas.. (End of Provision) K. 19 52.225-1 BUY AMERICAN ACT--SUPPLIES (JUN 2003) (Reference 52.225-1) K. 20 52.225-2 BUY AMERICAN ACT CERTIFICATE (JUN 2003) (a) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (b) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify asdomestic end products. The terms "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign endproduct," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act-Supplies." (b) Foreign End Products: _____________________________________________________________
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 108

| Line Item No. | Country of Origin | ||| |___________________________|_________________________________| ||| |___________________________|_________________________________| |___________________________|_________________________________| [List as necessary] (c) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of Part 25 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation. (End of Provision) K. 21 52.227-15 REPRESENTATION OF LIMITED RIGHTS DATA AND RESTRICTED COMPUTER SOFTWARE (DEC 2007) (a) This solicitation sets forth the Government's known delivery requirements for data (as defined in the clause at 52.227-14, Rights in Data--General). Any resulting contract may also provide the Government the option to order additional data under the Additional Data Requirements clause at 52.227-16, if included in the contract. Any data delivered under the resulting contract will be subject to the Rights in Data--General clause at 52.227-14 included in this contract. Under the latter clause, a Contractor may withhold from delivery data that qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software, and deliver form, fit, and function data instead. The latter clause also may be used with its Alternates II and/or III to obtain delivery of limited rights data or restricted computer software, marked with limited rights or restricted rights notices, as appropriate. In addition, use of Alternate V with this latter clause provides the Government the right to inspect such data at the Contractor's facility. (b) By completing the remainder of this paragraph, the offeror represents that it has reviewed the requirements for the delivery of technical data or computer software and states [offeror check appropriate block]-/__/ (1) None of the data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualifies as limited rights data or restricted computer software; or /__/ (2) Data proposed for fulfilling the data delivery requirements qualify as limited rights data or restricted computer software and are identified as follows: ________________________________________________ ________________________________________________ ________________________________________________ (c) Any identification of limited rights data or restricted computer software in the offeror's response is not determinative of the status of the data should a contract be awarded to the offeror. (End of provision) K. 22 52.230-1 COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION (OCT 2008)
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 109

Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III. Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract. If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.201-2(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively. I. Disclosure Statement-Cost Accounting Practices and Certification (a) Any contract in excess of $650,000 resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1. (b) Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statements required by 48 CFR 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror's proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision. Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data. (c) Check the appropriate box below: /_/ (1) "Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement." The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i) Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable; and (ii) One copy to the cognizant Federal auditor. (Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the loose-leaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.) Date of Disclosure Statement: __________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ________________________________ The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement. /_/ (2) "Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement." The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows: Date of Disclosure Statement: __________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ________________________

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

110

The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. /_/ (3) "Certificate of Monetary Exemption." The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. /_/ (4) "Certificate of Interim Exemption." The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) inaccordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-1, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. Caution: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded. II. Cost Accounting Standards-Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. /_/ The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAScovered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. Caution: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more. III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 111

change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts. /_/ yes /_/ no (End of Provision) K. 23 52.230-1 I COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOTICES AND CERTIFICATION (JUN 2000)-- ALTERNATE I (APR 1996) Note: This notice does not apply to small businesses or foreign governments. This notice is in three parts, identified by Roman numerals I through III. Offerors shall examine each part and provide the requested information in order to determine Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) requirements applicable to any resultant contract. If the offeror is an educational institution, Part II does not apply unless the contemplated contract will be subject to full or modified CAS coverage pursuant to 48 CFR 9903.2012(c)(5) or 9903.201-2(c)(6), respectively. I. Disclosure Statement-Cost Accounting Practices and Certification (a) Any contract in excess of $500,000 resulting from this solicitation will be subject to the requirements of the Cost Accounting Standards Board (48 CFR Chapter 99), except for those contracts which are exempt as specified in 48 CFR 9903.201-1. (b) Any offeror submitting a proposal which, if accepted, will result in a contract subject to the requirements of 48 CFR Chapter 99 must, as a condition of contracting, submit a Disclosure Statement as required by 48 CFR 9903.202. When required, the Disclosure Statement must be submitted as a part of the offeror''s proposal under this solicitation unless the offeror has already submitted a Disclosure Statement disclosing the practices used in connection with the pricing of this proposal. If an applicable Disclosure Statement has already been submitted, the offeror may satisfy the requirement for submission by providing the information requested in paragraph (c) of Part I of this provision.Caution: In the absence of specific regulations or agreement, a practice disclosed in a Disclosure Statement shall not, by virtue of such disclosure, be deemed to be a proper, approved, or agreed-to practice for pricing proposals or accumulating and reporting contract performance cost data. (c) Check the appropriate box below: /_/ (1) "Certificate of Concurrent Submission of Disclosure Statement." The offeror hereby certifies that, as a part of the offer, copies of the Disclosure Statement have been submitted as follows: (i) Original and one copy to the cognizant Administrative Contracting Officer (ACO) or cognizant Federal agency official authorized to act in that capacity (Federal official), as applicable; and (ii) One copy to the cognizant Federal auditor. (Disclosure must be on Form No. CASB DS-1 or CASB DS-2, as applicable. Forms may be obtained from the cognizant ACO or Federal official and/or from the loose-leaf version of the Federal Acquisition Regulation.) Date of Disclosure Statement: __________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ________________________________ The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the Disclosure Statement.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 112

/_/ (2) "Certificate of Previously Submitted Disclosure Statement." The offeror hereby certifies that the required Disclosure Statement was filed as follows: Date of Disclosure Statement: __________________ Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Filed: ________________________ The offeror further certifies that the practices used in estimating costs in pricing this proposal are consistent with the cost accounting practices disclosed in the applicable Disclosure Statement. /_/ (3) "Certificate of Monetary Exemption." The offeror hereby certifies that the offeror, together with all divisions, subsidiaries, and affiliates under common control, did not receive net awards of negotiated prime contracts and subcontracts subject to CAS totaling $50 million or more in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. /_/ (4) "Certificate of Interim Exemption." The offeror hereby certifies that (i) the offeror first exceeded the monetary exemption for disclosure, as defined in (3) of this subsection, in the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this offer was submitted and (ii) in accordance with 48 CFR 9903.202-1, the offeror is not yet required to submit a Disclosure Statement. The offeror further certifies that if an award resulting from this proposal has not been made within 90 days after the end of that period, the offeror will immediately submit a revised certificate to the Contracting Officer, in the form specified under paragraph (c)(1) or (c)(2) of Part I of this provision, as appropriate, to verify submission of a completed Disclosure Statement. /_/ (5) Certificate of Disclosure Statement Due Date by Educational Institution. If the offeror is an educational institution that, under the transition provisions of 48 CFR 9903.202-1(f), is or will be required to submit a Disclosure Statement after receipt of this award, the offeror hereby certifies that (check one and complete): /_/ (i) A Disclosure Statement Filing Due Date of _____________ has been established with the cognizant Federal agency. /_/ (ii) The Disclosure Statement will be submitted within the 6-month period ending _________ months after receipt of this award. Name and Address of Cognizant ACO or Federal Official Where Disclosure Statement is to be Filed: ____________ _______________________________________________ Caution: Offerors currently required to disclose because they were awarded a CAScovered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more in the current cost accounting period may not claim this exemption (4). Further, the exemption applies only in connection with proposals submitted before expiration of the 90-day period following the cost accounting period in which the monetary exemption was exceeded. II. Cost Accounting Standards-Eligibility for Modified Contract Coverage If the offeror is eligible to use the modified provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and elects to do so, the offeror shall indicate by checking the box below. Checking the box
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 113

below shall mean that the resultant contract is subject to the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause in lieu of the Cost Accounting Standards clause. /_/ The offeror hereby claims an exemption from the Cost Accounting Standards clause under the provisions of 48 CFR 9903.201-2(b) and certifies that the offeror is eligible for use of the Disclosure and Consistency of Cost Accounting Practices clause because during the cost accounting period immediately preceding the period in which this proposal was submitted, the offeror received less than $50 million in awards of CAScovered prime contracts and subcontracts. The offeror further certifies that if such status changes before an award resulting from this proposal, the offeror will advise the Contracting Officer immediately. Caution: An offeror may not claim the above eligibility for modified contract coverage if this proposal is expected to result in the award of a CAS-covered contract of $50 million or more or if, during its current cost accounting period, the offeror has been awarded a single CAS-covered prime contract or subcontract of $50 million or more. III. Additional Cost Accounting Standards Applicable to Existing Contracts The offeror shall indicate below whether award of the contemplated contract would, in accordance with paragraph (a)(3) of the Cost Accounting Standards clause, require a change in established cost accounting practices affecting existing contracts and subcontracts. /_/ yes /_/ no (End of Provision) 52.230-7 Proposal Disclosure--Cost Accounting Practice Changes. As prescribed in 30.201-3(c), insert the following provision: Proposal Disclosure--Cost Accounting Practice Changes (Apr 2005) The offeror shall check "yes" below if the contract award will result in a required or unilateral change in cost accounting practice, including unilateral changes requested to be desirable changes. o Yes o No If the offeror checked "Yes" above, the offeror shall-- (1) Prepare the price proposal in response to the solicitation using the changed practice for the period of performance for which the practice will be used; and (2) Submit a description of the changed cost accounting practice to the Contracting Officer and the Cognizant Federal Agency Official as pricing support for the proposal. (End of provision 52.234-2 Notice of Earned Value Management System - Pre-Award IBR. As prescribed in 34.203(a) use the following provision: Notice of Earned Value Management System - Pre-Award IBR (July 2006) (a) The offeror shall provide documentation that the Cognizant Federal Agency has determined that the proposed earned value management system (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard - 748 (current version at time of solicitation). (b) If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (1) The plan shall--
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 114

(i) Describe the EVMS the offeror intends to use in performance of the contracts; (ii) Distinguish between the offeror's existing management system and modifications proposed to meet the guidelines; (iii) Describe the management system and its application in terms of the EVMS guidelines; (iv) Describe the proposed procedure for administration of the guidelines, as applied to subcontractors; and (v) Provide documentation describing the process and results of any third-party or selfevaluation of the system's compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (2) The offeror shall provide information and assistance as required by the Contracting Officer to support review of the plan. (3) The Government will review and approve the offeror's plan for an EVMS before contract award. (4) The offeror's EVMS plan must provide milestones that indicate when the offeror anticipates that the EVM system will be compliant with the ANSI/EIA Standard - 748 guidelines. (c) Offerors shall identify the major subcontractors, or major subcontracted effort if major subcontractors have not been selected subject to the guidelines. The prime Contractor and the Government shall agree to subcontractors selected for application of the EVMS guidelines. (d) The Government will conduct an Integrated Baseline Review (IBR), as designated by the agency, prior to contract award. The objective of the IBR is for the Government and the Contractor to jointly assess technical areas, such as the Contractor's planning, to ensure complete coverage of the contract requirements, logical scheduling of the work activities, adequate resources, methodologies for earned value (budgeted cost for work performed (BCWP)), and identification of inherent risks. (End of provision) 52.234-3 Notice of Earned Value Management System - Post Award IBR. As prescribed in 34.203(b) use the following provision: Notice of Earned Value Management System - Post Award IBR (July 2006) (a) The offeror shall provide documentation that the Cognizant Federal Agency has determined that the proposed earned value management system (EVMS) complies with the EVMS guidelines in ANSI/EIA Standard - 748 (current version at time of solicitation). (b) If the offeror proposes to use a system that has not been determined to be in compliance with the requirements of paragraph (a) of this provision, the offeror shall submit a comprehensive plan for compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (1) The plan shall-- (i) Describe the EVMS the offeror intends to use in performance of the contracts; (ii) Distinguish between the offeror's existing management system and modifications proposed to meet the guidelines; (iii) Describe the management system and its application in terms of the EVMS guidelines; (iv) Describe the proposed procedure for administration of the guidelines, as applied to subcontractors; and
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 115

(v) Provide documentation describing the process and results of any third-party or selfevaluation of the system's compliance with the EVMS guidelines. (2) The offeror shall provide information and assistance as required by the Contracting Officer to support review of the plan. (3) The Government will review and approve the offeror's plan for an EVMS before contract award. (4) The offeror's EVMS plan must provide milestones that indicate when the offeror anticipates that the EVM system will be compliant with the ANSI/EIA Standard -748 guidelines. (c) Offerors shall identify the major subcontractors, or major subcontracted effort if major subcontractors have not been selected, planned for application of the guidelines. The prime Contractor and the Government shall agree to subcontractors selected for application of the EVMS guidelines. (End of provision)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

116

SECTION L - INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS L.1 PBGC-15-002 PROPOSAL SUBMISSION INSTRUCTIONS (OCT 2004) a. One original and seven (7) copies are due on the date and at the time specified as the closing dated of the RFP as indicated on the coversheet of this solicitation. b. Markings. The outer envelope or wrapping of the offer shall be addressed as follows. Failure to so mark the outer envelope could be the cause of the offer being misdirected and received too late for consideration at the required destination. FROM: Offeror's Return Address TO: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION SOLICITATION NO.: (See Block 7 of SF33) Closing Date: (See Block 9 of SF 33) 1200 K STREET, NW Mail Stop: Procurement WASHINGTON, DC 20005-4026

c. Hand-Carried Offers. Proposals that are hand-carried shall be delivered to the same suite number shown above in a sealed outer wrapper. Hand-carried offers must be received in the office indicated above by the due date and time. Proposals received at the destination after the time and date specified for receipt will be considered late and dealt with in accordance with the late proposal provision of the FAR. d. All proposals also shall be submitted electronically via the PBGC Secure Proposal site. To submit your proposal, follow the steps below: 1. Encrypt your file(s) (password protect) 2. Go to http://files.pbgc.gov 3. Select "Secure Upload". 4. Enter the email address of the Contract Specialist and click "Start". 5. Enter your contact information. 6. Enter your message and a description of the submission. (This information will be included in the notification to the Contract Specialist.) 7. Click the notification checkbox to ensure you receive notification when the file is downloaded by the Contract Specialist. 8. Select the upload method, Regular or Enhanced. Regular upload works with all browsers and enhanced upload works with Java enabled browsers. 9. Select the file(s) to send. (Use the Browse buttons). 10. Press the Upload & Send button. 11. Send a separate email to the Contract Specialist with your encryption password.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

117

You will receive an automated system confirmation of a successful upload, and an automated system email when the Contract Specialist downloads your submission. e. All questions concerning this solicitation shall be submitted in writing by email to the Contract Specialist named in Block 10 of the SF-33 for information about any aspect of the solicitation. Prospective Offerors are warned against contacting any PBGC personnel outside the Procurement Department prior to award of a Contract resulting from this solicitation. If such contact occurs and is found to be prejudicial to competing vendors, the vendor making such contact may be excluded from award consideration. f. Email submissions of all questions/inquiries shall be submitted to kvalevog.firoela@pbgc.gov . Responses to all inquiries/questions will be published by amendment to the solicitation at www.fbo.gov, giving due regard to the proper protection of proprietary information. Offerors shall be responsible for assessing www.fbo.gov for the agency's responses. No information concerning this solicitation shall be provided in response to telephone calls. h. Prospective Offerors are asked to submit their questions grouped by solicitation section and making reference to the particular paragraph in that section. Questions shall be submitted in writing, no later than 10:00 am EDT on or before seven (7) business days after the release date of the solicitation, to allow the PBGC an opportunity to respond. Any questions received after this deadline shall be considered late and may not be answered. i. Offeror's proposals shall be submitted in two separate phases, Phase I and Phase II, as further described below. Phase I shall include Volume I - Technical Information, Volume II - Qualifications of Key Personnel and Volume III - Cost and Pricing Information. Phase II shall include the Oral Presentation. The proposals submitted for Phase I and Phase II shall be separately bound so the evaluation of each phase may be conducted independently. Proposals shall be enclosed in sealed packaging and addressed to the office as specified in this solicitation. Facsimile offers will not be considered. L.2 PHASE I ­ VOLUME I - TECHNICAL INFORMATION, VOLUME II QUALIFICATIONS OF KEY PERSONNEL AND VOLUME III - COST AND PRICING INFORMATION A. General Instructions In Phase I, all offers shall be evaluated preliminarily to ensure compliance with the requirements set forth in this solicitation which include the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ timely receipt of the offer, determination of contractor and subcontractor responsibility in accordance with FAR 9.104, information presented in the manner required by section L.1 and L.2, and inclusion in the offer of all information required by Section M.
118

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

The written information submitted for the Phase I evaluation shall use the specific format below. These directions assist in providing a fair and equitable evaluation of all proposals. The Government may determine that those proposals not following the directions are unacceptable and may reject such offers from further consideration. The written information for the Phase I evaluation shall be presented as follows: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ 8.5 by 11 inch paper 12 pitch print or larger, Times New Roman style font 1.25 inch left hand margin .75 inch right hand margin and 1 inch margins at both the top and bottom for each page all pages single spaced and double spaced between paragraphs every page sequentially numbered; and page numbers shall be centered in the bottom margin.

B. Written Technical Proposal The Offeror shall submit the following Volumes I, II, and III on or before the solicitation deadline. B.1. Volume I - Technical Information This volume shall be submitted with three (3) sections. The first page of Volume I shall be the Benefit Calculation and Valuation (BCV) Solution Compliance Traceability Matrix. Offerors shall complete the BCV Solution Compliance Traceability Matrix which is attached at Section J. The Matrix will map the Offeror's proposal sections to the specific requirements in Section C, the Statement of Objectives, and Section M, Evaluation Factors for Award. Any proposal that does not include a fully completed Compliance Traceability Matrix as the first page of Volume I shall not be considered for award. The three (3) sections of Volume I shall present the following factors: Factor 1. Proposed Methodologies and Performance Requirements a. Proposed Methodologies b. Performance Requirements Factor 2. Professional Experience a. Technical Aspects of Delivering a New Software System b. Adherence to Technical Standards and Methodologies c. Adherence to Business Standards d. Corporate Resources
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 119

e. Professional Development and Ongoing Training of Contractor and Subcontractor Personnel f. Transition Plan Volume I shall be limited to a maximum of ninety (90) pages. The Offeror may decide how to allocate the page limitation among the sections above. All pages after page ninety (90) shall not be read. Factor 3. Past Performance Offerors shall be responsible for forwarding the Past Performance Questionnaire found at Section J to no less than three (3) references for whom during the past three (3) years the Offeror has performed work substantially similar to the work described in Section C of this solicitation. Each reference must return the completed questionnaire by email to the Contract Specialist indicated at block 10 on the SF-33 to this solicitation by the closing date and time of the solicitation. Offerors shall provide a list of the names of the specific references that will be responding to the Past Performance Questionnaire. The list of references shall appear at this section 3. B.2. Volume II ­ Factor 4 - Qualifications of Key Personnel The Offeror shall provide the following information in Volume II on the Qualifications of the Key Personnel for this solicitation: a. The Offeror shall submit only one resume for each of the Key Personnel labor categories described in Section H. b. The Offeror shall provide the names, position descriptions, and information to support the qualifications, including relevant experience, specialized training and education, of all proposed key personnel (see clause entitled "Key Personnel" in Section H of this solicitation for further definition). c. The employment work history shall demonstrate that the proposed individual meets the minimum position qualifications presented in Section H. d. The resume employment work history shall be in chronological order and include the names of employers, position titles, start and end dates of employment in format (MMYYYY) and responsibilities and duties performed during the employment period. e. The Offeror shall include any proposed consultants and subcontractor employees who will perform the duties of Key Personnel. f. The Offeror shall address how its key personnel satisfy the evaluation criteria set forth in Section M.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 120

g. The Offeror shall explain any gaps in the work history of key personnel. h. Any additional relevant information in the resume may be included at the Offeror's discretion. i. For all key personnel not currently employed by the Offeror, the Offeror shall provide commitment letters. This volume shall be limited to a maximum of forty (40) pages excluding the commitment letters. Any pages which exceed the maximum page limit shall not be read. B.3. Volume III - Factor 5 ­ Cost and Pricing Information This volume shall be submitted with all required solicitation documents properly executed. The Cost and Pricing Volume shall consist of the signed solicitation documents, the total extended pricing entered at the appropriate CLIN number for the base year and all option year periods of performance, and all required, completed representations and certifications. Offerors are cautioned that no reference to its proposed price(s) shall be made in any other volume. Offerors shall comply with all requirements of the proposal submission instructions. Deviations shall be fully explained; however, inclusion of price in documents other than Volume III is not an acceptable deviation. L.3 PHASE II - ORAL PRESENTATIONS A. General Instructions At the conclusion of Phase I, successful offerors who received an adjectival rating of "Acceptable" or higher shall be invited to make an oral presentation addressing the evaluation factors listed at Section M.3. The oral presentations shall constitute Phase II. Each Offeror rated "Acceptable" or higher shall be notified via email with the date, time, and room number at PBGC Headquarters that the oral presentation will be made. Appointments for the oral presentation shall be drawn by lottery and there will be no opportunity to change the time assigned. The presentations will be videotaped. Presentations shall be limited to no more than one and one-half (1- 1/2) hour. At the conclusion of the oral presentation, the Government may ask questions to clarify the presentation. The question period will not count against the Offeror's time limit. The oral presentation shall be presented by the Key Personnel identified in the Offeror's proposal. No one other than key contract and subcontract personnel who will be assigned to this contract shall be permitted to present any part of the oral presentation or be in attendance during the oral presentation. The oral presentation will enable the Government to evaluate the Offeror's capability to provide the services required by the contract. Therefore, the Offeror shall use the opportunity of the oral presentation to discuss the matters set out at M.3, below.
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 121

The Phase II, Oral Presentation Information, shall be submitted to the Government by 5:00 P.M. EST two (2) days prior to the oral presentation. The Oral Presentation Information shall consist of a hard copy of any charts, view graphs, exhibits or other materials that the Offeror intends to use to support its oral presentation. The Offeror shall not be permitted to make any changes to these materials after they have been submitted to the Government. The Offeror shall be responsible for providing any personnel necessary to facilitate the use of any materials during the course of the presentation if this facilitation will not be done by the Offeror's presenter. Any view graph, computer presentation or other materials must be prepared in a font size large enough to be seen at the back of a conference room. (The requirements set forth above for the written Technical Proposal do not apply to materials prepared for the oral presentation.) The Government will provide a screen and a projector for the Offeror's use but the Offeror shall be responsible for supplying any other required presentation equipment. In the event of rquipment failure, the Offeror shall proceed with the presentation without the use of such equipment. No price information is to be included in the oral presentation or briefing charts. The filming of the presentation will be terminated immediately at the completion of the one and one-half (1-1/2) hour unless the Offeror has completed its presentation earlier. A question and answer period which also will be videotaped will follow the oral presentation. The question and answer period for clarifying the oral presentation will not exceed one (1) hour. No negotiations shall occur during the oral presentation or the question and answer period. L.4 TYPE OF CONTRACT In accordance with FAR 52.216-1, the Government contemplates the award of an IDIQ contract with Firm Fixed-Price and Cost-Plus-Fixed-Fee task orders. L.5 SITE VISITS PBGC reserves the right to conduct site visits at the offeror's location. The Offerors will be given the date, time, and place for any visit/discussion. L.6 PROPOSAL PREPARATION COSTS AND MULTIPLE OFFERS This solicitation does not commit the Government to pay any costs incurred in the preparation and submission of any proposal. By the submission of its offer, the Offeror assumes all associated cost. Multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions will not be accepted. L. 7 CLAUSES 52.207-1 -- Notice of Standard Competition 52.215-1 -- Instructions to Offerors - Competitive

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

122

52.215 -1, Alt. I -- Instructions to Offerors ­ Competitive 52.222-24 ­ Pre-Award On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation 52.232-13 -- Notice of Progress Payments 52.237-10 -- Identification of Uncompensated Overtime 52.252-3 - -Alterations in Solicitation. As prescribed in 52.107(c), insert the following provision in solicitations in order to revise or supplement, as necessary, other parts of the solicitation that apply to the solicitation phase only, except for any provision authorized for use with a deviation. Include clear identification of what is being altered. Alterations in Solicitation (Apr 1984) Portions of this solicitation are altered as follows: _____________________________________________ _____________________________________________ _____________________________________________ (End of provision)

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

123

SECTION M - EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD M.1 BEST VALUE PROCUREMENT - RELATIVE IMPORTANCE OF TECHNICAL VERSUS COST/PRICE FACTORS The award shall be made to the best overall proposal that is determined to be the most beneficial and offers the best value to the Government. The contents of Volume I and Volume II shall be evaluated in Phase I. In Phase I, the Proposed Methodologies and Performance Requirements, Professional Experience, and Qualifications of Key Personnel shall be significantly more important than Past Performance. Oral Presentations constitute Phase II. In Phase II, Business Standards Approach, Technical Methodology Approach, and Management Approach shall be of equal importance. Cost and Pricing Information, Volume III, shall be evaluated to determine if it is complete and reasonable. The combined relative merit of Phase I, the Proposed Methodologies and Performance Requirements, Professional Experience, Past Performance and Qualifications of Key Personnel and Phase II, Oral Presentations, shall be significantly more important than cost or price in the selection of the Offeror. Cost and Pricing Information shall be evaluated to determine if it is complete and reasonable. As permitted by the provisions of FAR 15.101-1, a tradeoff process among cost or price and non-cost factors shall be followed in order to ensure that the selected offer will provide the best value to the Government. Offerors are cautioned that the award may not necessarily be made to the lowest priced Offeror or to the highest technically-rated Offeror. The Government intends to award without discussion. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. M.2 EVALUATION FACTORS - PHASE I In Phase I, with the exception of Past Performance and Cost and Pricing, the information in Volumes I and II shall be evaluated by a Technical Evaluation Panel (TEP) using the adjectival ratings scale provided in its respective sections. Cost and Pricing Information shall be evaluated to determine if it is complete and reasonable. In conducting its evaluation, the Government intends to determine which proposal offers the best value. The TEP will rate each proposal strictly in accordance with its contents and will not assume that performance will include areas not specified in the Offeror's proposal. NOTE: The Offeror shall include a completed copy of the Benefit Calculation and Valuation (BCV) Solution Compliance Traceability Matrix (found at Section J of the solicitation) as the first page of Volume I. If the Matrix is not completed or is completed but does not appear as the first page of Volume I, the Offeror's proposal will be given no further consideration. If the Offeror includes a completed copy of the Matrix as the first page of Volume I, the contents of the Matrix will not receive a
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 124

substantive evaluation, but the Offeror will have met the threshold requirement to have its proposal further evaluated for award. M.2.1. Volume I ­ Technical Information Threshold Requirement: Compliance Traceability Matrix Did the Offeror include a completed copy of the Benefit Calculation and Valuation (BCV) Solution Compliance Traceability Matrix as the first page of Volume I? If this threshold requirement has been met, the Offeror's proposal will be evaluated. If the Offeror did not meet this threshold requirement, the Offeror's proposal will not be evaluated for award. M.2.1.1. Factor 1 - Proposed Methodologies and Performance Requirements A. Proposed Methodologies 1. Did the Offeror propose a planning phase methodology that addressed the objectives in Section C and that included specific standards which would be measurable, attainable, realistic and traceable? 2. Did the Offeror propose a software development methodology that addressed the objectives in Section C and that included specific standards which would be measurable, attainable, realistic and traceable? 3. Did the Offeror propose an operations, production support services and maintenance methodology that addressed the objectives in Section C and that included specific standards which would be measurable, attainable, realistic and traceable? B. Performance Requirements 1. Did the Offeror propose a high-level technical, business and management strategy that addressed the objectives in Section C and that included specific standards which would be measurable, attainable, realistic and traceable? 2. Did the Offeror addressed incentives which would encourage high quality performance? 3. Did the Offeror propose a monitoring program that would be effective and that would reduce the administrative burden on PBGC? 4. Did the Offeror's information provide a basis for anticipating a successfully drafted Performance Work Statement (PWS) and Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP) after the completion of the planning phase and the other necessary prerequisites to such documents?

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

125

M.2.1.2. Factor 2 - Professional Experience A. Technical Aspects of Delivering a New Software System 1. Did the Offeror describe in detail its professional experience in planning and delivering a phased approach to a software system with minimal downtime? Did the Offeror discuss the extent to which this professional experience involved the technical dependencies similar to those outlined in section C, Statement of Objectives, in this solicitation? 2. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in utilizing project management in the delivery of a new software system, with emphasis on the following: a. Handling teams of various sizes b. Developing integrated project management plans that utilized input from project team members c. Developing and executing work breakdown structures d. Managing resources, including specialized personnel and limited budgets e. Developing project schedules f. Developing cost estimates g. Utilizing earned value management h. Incorporating risk management processes and tools 3. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in interfacing and integrating existing and legacy applications into a new software solution? 4. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in migrating databases from legacy systems into a new software solution? 5. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in responding to and resolving operational problems and trouble tickets for existing and legacy applications? B. Adherence to Technical Standards and Methodologies 1. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in meeting an organization's technical standards and methodologies in the design and implementation of a new software system, including: a. Enterprise Architecture Blueprint b. System Life Cycle Methodology (SLCM) such as PBGC's ITSLCM c. Security Requirements as required by NIST and FISMA
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 126

d. Change Management Requirements e. Quality Assurance and Independent Validation and Verification Standards 2. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in meeting federal government standards promulgated by OMB in the design and implementation of a new software system? C. Adherence to Business Standards 1. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience with issues related to actuarial calculations and include the extent to which its experience addressed the following: a. Complex actuarial calculations b. Standard, hard-coded but modifiable algorithms c. Industry-specific provisions d. Free surviving spouse provisions e. Grow-ins for ongoing employers f. Death, disability and QDRO benefits g. Offsets h. Partially purchased annuities 2. Did the Offeror describe in detail the extent to which its experience with actuarial calculations included consideration of the following: a. Accommodating guaranteed limits b. Accommodating aggregate limit of benefits payable c. Calculating ERISA section 4044 asset allocation d. Calculating ERISA section 4022(c) allocation e. Calculating Priority Category eligibilities f. Methodologies for estimating missing data 3. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in developing flexible benefit calculations and valuation algorithms?

D. Corporate Resources 1. In light of the Key Personnel the Offeror proposed for this contract work, did the Offeror describe in detail the following staffing arrangements: a. Project team organization and the associated reporting structure
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 127

b. Specific roles of team members with special emphasis on key personnel 2. Did the Offeror describe in detail its use of subcontractors, consultants, part-time and short-term personnel and its management plan for supervising such personnel? 3. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in shifting resources or recruiting additional professional resources to meet changing or unanticipated project needs? 4. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in managing diverse, cross-functional teams of technical professionals, business users, quality assurance and security personnel, and enterprise architectural personnel? 5. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in managing projects such as the project envisioned in this solicitation? 6. Did the Offeror describe its experience in drafting and executing a software project pursuant to a Performance Work Statement (PWS) and a Quality Assurance Surveillance Plan (QASP)? 7. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in delivering complex, high quality and timely delivered software projects? E. Professional Development and Ongoing Training of Contractor and Subcontractor Personnel 1. Did the Offeror describe its company's policy for training its employees to ensure that they remain current in their areas of expertise? 2. Did the Offeror describe what requirements, if any, will be imposed on subcontractors to insure that their employees receive the training necessary to maintain their professional expertise? 3. Did the Offeror describe the training provided during the past five years to the key personnel identified in its proposal who are employees of the prime contractor? 4. Did the Offeror describe the training provided during the past five years to the Key Personnel identified in its proposal who are employees of subcontractors? 5. Did the Offeror describe what future professional development and training will it provide for the key personnel (of the prime contractor and the subcontractor) identified in its proposal given the requirements in Section C of this solicitation?
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 128

F. Transition Plan 1. Did the Offeror describe its company's experience with contract vendor transitions? 2. Did the Offeror describe a detailed comprehensive transition plan, up to thirty (30) days, outlining key transition milestones, how the Offeror would identify key project work, ensure continuity of current work activities underway, and ensure retention of PBGC's institutional knowledge? Note: Offerors will be evaluated on the adjectival rating scale table listed below. The adjectival rating scale table below shall be used to evaluate Factor 1Proposed Methodologies and Performance Requirements and Factor 2Professional Experience in Phase I for all Offerors. The evaluation adjectival ratings are described as follows:
ADJECTIVAL DEFINITION RATING Outstanding The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a thorough understanding of the desired solution, provides sufficiently extensive detail, to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution and otherwise offers numerous significant strengths, which are not offset by weaknesses, creating an overall low degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. Good The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows an understanding of the desired solution, provides adequate detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution and otherwise offers some significant strengths or numerous minor strengths, which are not offset by significant weaknesses, creating an overall low to moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a minimum understanding of the desired solution, provides minimum detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution, creating an overall moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a minimal understanding of the desired solution, and provides 129

Acceptable

Marginal

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

ADJECTIVAL RATING

DEFINITION minimum detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution, creating an overall high degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information includes major error (s), omissions(s) or deficiency (ies) a lack of understanding of the desired solution or an approach to that solution that cannot be expected to meet the Government's requirements, creating an overall very high degree of risk, and none of these considerations can be corrected without a major rewrite or revision of the proposal.

Unacceptable

M.2.1.3. Factor 3 - Past Performance The PBGC is seeking to determine whether each Offeror consistently delivers quality products and/or services in a timely manner with a reasonable degree of customer satisfaction. Therefore, this factor shall be evaluated on the basis of relevant past performance information as it is received from references provided by the Offeror and from any other reliable source available to the PBGC such as an official past performance database and/or other government and local agencies. Offerors shall be evaluated on the information from the completed Past Performance Questionnaires which have been received by the Contract Specialist in a timely manner. As provided in FAR Part 15.3, an Offeror without a record of relevant past performance or for whom information on past performance is not available will not be evaluated favorable or unfavorable on past performance. Offerors without a record of relevant past performance will be given a neutral rating. Note: Offerors will be evaluated on the adjectival rating scale table listed below. The following adjectival rating scale table below shall be used to evaluate Factor 3-Past Performance in Phase I for all Offerors. The evaluation adjectival ratings are described as follows: ADJECTIVAL RATING Outstanding DESCRIPTION The Offeror's past performance indicates a record of meeting client requirements with a high degree of success and high customer satisfaction.

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

130

ADJECTIVAL RATING Satisfactory

DESCRIPTION The Offeror's past performance indicates a record of meeting client requirements with a moderate degree of success and moderate customer satisfaction. The Offeror's past performance indicates a record of meeting client requirements with some degree of satisfaction and some degree of customer satisfaction.

Unsatisfactory

M.2.2. Volume II - Factor 4 - Qualifications of Key Personnel The qualifications of the Offeror's Key Personnel shall be evaluated based on the following: 1. The Offeror provided resumes for all Key Personnel. 2. All Key Personnel meet the requirements in Section H. 3. The Offeror proposed qualified and experienced Key Personnel with the necessary relevant capabilities sufficient to achieve the objectives in Section C. 4. The Offeror provided commitment letters for all Key Personnel not currently employed by the Offeror. Note: Offerors will be evaluated on the adjectival rating scale table listed below. The adjectival rating scale table below shall be used to evaluate Factor 4Qualifications of Key Personnel in Phase I for all Offerors. The evaluation adjectival ratings are described as follows:
ADJECTIVAL DEFINITION RATING Outstanding The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a thorough understanding of the desired solution, provides sufficiently extensive detail, to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution and otherwise offers numerous significant strengths, which are not offset by weaknesses, creating an overall low degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. PBGC01-RP-09-0025 131

ADJECTIVAL RATING Good

DEFINITION The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows an understanding of the desired solution, provides adequate detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution and otherwise offers some significant strengths or numerous minor strengths, which are not offset by significant weaknesses, creating an overall low to moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a minimum understanding of the desired solution, provides minimum detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution, creating an overall moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a minimal understanding of the desired solution, and provides minimum detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution, creating an overall high degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information includes major error (s), omissions(s) or deficiency (ies) a lack of understanding of the desired solution or an approach to that solution that cannot be expected to meet the Government's requirements, creating an overall very high degree of risk, and none of these considerations can be corrected without a major rewrite or revision of the proposal.

Acceptable

Marginal

Unacceptable

M.2.3 Factor V- Cost and Pricing Information When evaluating the cost and price proposal, a determination shall be made as to the reasonableness and the completeness of the cost and price proposal. In accordance with FAR 15.404-1(b), the Government shall use this cost and price analysis to determine whether the proposed costs and prices are fair and reasonable. Price will not receive an adjectival rating. The Government shall evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

132

Price will become more important as the non-price evaluations of other offers approach equality. M.3. EVALUATION FACTORS FOR PHASE II ­ ORAL PRESENTATIONS Offerors who receive an adjectival rating of "Acceptable" or higher shall be invited to make oral presentations during Phase II of the evaluation process. Oral presentations shall be evaluated using the adjectival rating scale listed in this section. Each Offeror shall be evaluated on the following factors: M.3.1. Business Standards Approach 1. Did the Offeror provide specific plan administration scenarios where it was tasked with analyzing and calculating the following complex types of plan provisions and/or benefits: a. Industry specific b. Free-surviving spouse c. Grow-ins for ongoing employers d. Death, disability and QDRO benefits e. Offsets f. Partially purchased annuities 2. Did the Offeror describe in detail its methods used to standardize the calculations in question 1 above? 3. Did the Offeror describe in detail the processes it has in place for modification of these standard plan provisions and/or benefits as changes occurred (for example: policy changes, new provisions, and benefits)? 4. Did the Offeror describe the specific plan administration scenarios where it analyzed and calculated the following types of plan provisions and/or benefits: a. Accommodating guaranteed limits b. Accommodating aggregate limit of benefits payable c. Calculating ERISA section 4044 asset allocation d. Calculating ERISA section 4022(c) allocation e. Calculating Priority Category eligibilities f. Methodologies for estimating missing data

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

133

5. Did the Offeror describe its experience in developing flexible benefit calculations and valuation algorithms? M.3.2. Technical Methodology Approach 1. Did the Offeror describe its experience in delivering complex, high quality, and timely delivered software projects similar in size and scope to the requirements in Section C of this solicitation? 2. Did the Offeror describe in detail its approach to support the design and development of the new BCV solution (planning phase) requirement outlined in section C.5.1? 3. Did the Offeror describe how the key personnel proposed for this solicitation will support the requirements in Section C of the solicitation? 4. Did the Offeror describe in detail its experience in supporting in parallel the following? a. Development and modernization enhancements projects b. Maintenance projects, and c. Operations support services 5. Did the Offeror describe in detail its approach for providing Operations and Maintenance of the existing PBGC suite of legacy applications (ACT/Archive)? M.3.3. Management Approach 1. Did the Offeror describe its approach for supporting the future professional development and ongoing training for the key personnel (of the prime contractor and the subcontractor) identified in its proposal? 2. Did the Offeror describe its company's experience with contract vendor transitions? 3. Did the Offeror describe a transition plan, up to thirty (30) days, including key transition milestones and how the Offeror would identify key project work and how the Offeror would insure continuity of current work activities and retention of PBGC's institutional knowledge? Note: Offerors will be evaluated on the adjectival rating scale table listed below. The adjectival rating scale table below shall be used to evaluate the factors in Phase II. The evaluation adjectival ratings are described as follows:
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 134

ADJECTIVAL DEFINITION RATING Outstanding The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a thorough understanding of the desired solution, provides sufficiently extensive detail, to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution and otherwise offers numerous significant strengths, which are not offset by weaknesses, creating an overall low degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. Good The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows an understanding of the desired solution, provides adequate detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution and otherwise offers some significant strengths or numerous minor strengths, which are not offset by significant weaknesses, creating an overall low to moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a minimum understanding of the desired solution, provides minimum detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution, creating an overall moderate degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information satisfies all the government's requirements, shows a minimal understanding of the desired solution, and provides minimum detail to indicate the feasibility of developing a successful approach to that solution, creating an overall high degree of risk in meeting the Government's requirements. The Offeror's information includes major error (s), omissions(s) or deficiency (ies) a lack of understanding of the desired solution or an approach to that solution that cannot be expected to meet the Government's requirements, creating an overall very high degree of risk, and none of these considerations can be corrected without a major rewrite or revision of the proposal.

Acceptable

Marginal

Unacceptable

M.4

EXCHANGES WITH OFFERORS

Although an award may be made without discussions with Offerors, the PBGC may hold limited exchanges with Offerors. These exchanges are defined as clarifications. Pursuant to FAR 15.306, an exchange between the government and the Offeror will give an
PBGC01-RP-09-0025 135

Offeror the opportunity to clarify minor or clerical errors in its offer. The PBGC may hold limited exchanges with Offerors before establishing the competitive range. M.5 COMPETITIVE RANGE DETERMINATION

Pursuant to FAR Part 15.306(j), if discussions are held, the Contracting Officer shall establish a competitive range of the most highly rated proposals. If the number of most highly rated proposals exceeds the number at which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range. M.6 EVALUATION OF OPTIONS

The PBGC will evaluate quotes for award purposes by adding the total cost of all options to the total cost of the base period requirement. Evaluation of options will not obligate the PBGC to exercise the option(s). The PBGC may reject a quote as non-responsive if it is materially unbalanced as to cost for the base year requirement in relationship to the option years. A quote is unbalanced when it is based on costs significantly less for some work and significantly overstated for other work, or the costs do not reflect market value. M.7 PBGC-15-0111 REFERENCE AND EVALUATION (OCT 2004)

The PBGC reserves the right to contact any or all references cited by the Offeror for the purpose of verifying the accuracy and completeness of the information provided. Information obtained from reference checks will be used in evaluation and scoring, as described above. M.8 CLAUSES 52.217-5 -- Evaluation of Options

PBGC01-RP-09-0025

136

