

The Defense Security Service (DSS) has a requirement for Hardware Upgrade and maintenance support.  The required hardware and services are
further described in the attached statement of work (SOW), Attachment (1).

2. This requirement will be competed open market and under Simplified Acquisition Procedures (SAP).

3.  Requirements for Submission of Quotations

The Defense Security Service (DSS) is seeking quotations pursuant to SAP for hardware and the services described in the attached in the SOW–
Attachment 1.  DSS anticipates the award of a firm-fixed-price order.

DSS will evaluate the contractor’s technical acceptability,  past performances and price. Non-price factors are significantly more important
than price.

a. Technical Acceptability:
The Quoter shall quote the brand name or equal products listed in Attachment 1.  If the vendor does not quote the exact brand name or equal
products with salient characteristics described in the SOW, the quote will be deemed technical unacceptable and receive no further
consideration.

b. Past Performance:  DSS will use the Past Performance provided on SEWP and DSS experience with the contractor to assign a past performance
rating. However, DSS may use other sources of information to rate the vendor’s past performance.

c. Price:  Attachment 2 (pricing schedule) Quoter shall provide a firm-fixed price for the hardware upgrade, delivery and 3-year service
package.  The quote shall include hardware description, part number, Qty, unit price and extended pricing for all parts separately priced
delivery.

 We do not seek, and will not evaluate, any other information from you other than that requested above.


4.  Evaluation Process

 DSS will assess the technical acceptability and past performance, and compare pricing against the benefits of the quote and make the award to
the responsible contractor that submitted the best value quotation.

Quotes must be received via the SEWP Tool by 12 PM (Eastern) on Wednesday, 28 September 2011. Quotes that are posted late (i.e. after the date
and time shown in the preceding sentence), are incomplete, or are posted at any location other than the SEWP Tool will be considered to be late
and will not be evaluated by the Government.

In making the decision as to which firm represents the best value, information other than
what is requested above  will not be evaluated or reviewed by the Government.

 This request for quotation shall not be construed as a commitment of any kind.

Questions shall be addressed to Durba Ray at durba.ray@dss.mil or 571-305-6721.

Sincerely,


Christopher Harris
Contracting Officer



 Section C- Statement of Work

1.  PURPOSE:  The purpose of this requirement is to procure hardware upgrade and maintenance to support the Defense Security Service (DSS).  The
contractor shall provide Defense Security Service (DSS) all personnel, services and supplies necessary for the Hardware and warranty as
described below.

2. REQUIREMENT:

The DSS user environment requires following hardware upgrades:

I.  HARDWARE:
      1.  Dell Hardware Upgrade for QF-1201 or equivalent.  The hardware must have the following salient characteristics:

      a. Minimum Quad Core Xeon with 8MB Cache, 2.4 GHZ, 5.86 GT/s QPI,TurboHT
      b.  Minimum 6 GB of Memory
      c.  Needs Dual Redundant Auto Sensing Power Supply
      d. Minimum of 200 Mbps Traffic Rate
      e. Minimum 4x10/100/1000 CX Network Interfaces
      d.  Must be on the NIAP approved products list or in NIAP product evaluation or be approved products list or in evaluation in one of the
partner countries common criteria process.
      e.  Must be able to operate as a flow collector


   2.  Dell Hardware Upgrade for QF-1202 or equivalent.  The hardware must have the following salient characteristics:


      a. Minimum Quad Core Xeon with 8MB Cache, 2.4 GHz, 5.86 GT/s QPI, TurboHT
      b. Minimum 6 GB of Memory
      c. Needs Dual Redundant Auto Sensing Power Supply
      d. Minimum of 2 Gbps Traffic Rate
      e. Minimum 1x10/100/1000 CX Mngt 4x1000 CX Monitor
      f.  Must be on the NIAP approved products list or in NIAP product evaluation or be approved products list or in evaluation in one of the
      partner countries common criteria process
      g.  Must be able to operate as a flow collector

3.  Dell Hardware Upgrade for QF-3100 or equivalent (Quantity 1)

     a. Minimum Quad Core Xeon with 8MB Cache, 2.4 GHZ, 5.86 GT/s, TurboHT
     b.  Minimum 6GB of Memory
      c.  Needs Dual Redundant Auto Sensing Power supply
     d. Minimum of 2 Gbps Traffic Rate
     e. Minimum 1x10/100/1000 CX Mngt 4x1000CX Monitor
      f.  Must be on the NIAP approved products list or in NIAP product evalution or be approved products list or in evaluation in one of the
partner coutnries common criteria process
     g.  Must be able to operate as a flow collector


II . MAINTENANCE SUPPORT:

Service package (warranty) shall be for 3 years.

III.  SCHEDULE/ DELIVERY DATE:

The Government estimates a delivery date of no later than 30 days after award. However, the Contractor is expected to coordinate the exact date
with Government Personnel.

DELIVERY:

Location:

Defense Security Service
Property Management Office (PMO)
c/o Conrad Bovell
27130 Telegraph Road
Quantico, Virginia 22134

VERY IMPORTANT: The transportation agent MUST unload the property off the truck and transport the property from the Logistics building to room
K0162. They MUST also remove and dispose of all packing/shipping material. They also need to provide their own pallet jack with wide rubberized
wheels so they don't damage the carpet.

Delivery requirements for this contract:

   1. Truck driver shall provide proof of valid insurance, valid state registration and driver's license to gain permission to drive on base.

   2. All trucks must report to the Quantico Truck Inspection Station on Telegraph Road for inspection of the truck, contents and driver
      credentials. Part of these credentials is a DSS POC who will be at Quantico to meet the truck. For this contract, the DSS POCs at Quantico
      will be Michele Boldt at (571) 926-6009 and/or Aster Gilmer at (703) 517-8500.

   3. Truck driver shall then report to the Visitor Control Center (VCC) to obtain visitors badge prior to driving to the loading dock.

   4. Contractor must provide the Property Management Office (PMO) with the following:

         • Amount of trucks making the delivery.
         • Amount of pallets.
         • Amount of boxes per pallet.
         • Weight of each pallet and total weight of shipment.


3.  ADDITIONAL SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS


3.1  508 REQUIREMENTS

All electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this Contract must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194,
unless an agency exception to this requirement exists. (36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is
viewable at http://www.access-board.gov/sec508/508standards.htm - PART 1194).

The following standards have been determined to be applicable to this contract:
___x___1194.21 Software applications and operating systems.
 ______1194.22 Web-based intranet and internet information and applications.
 __ ____1194.23 Telecommunications products.
______1194.24 Video and multimedia products.
 ______1194.25 Self-contained closed products.
______1194.26 Desktop and portable computers.
The standards do not require the installation of specific accessibility-related software or the attachment of an assistive technology device,
but merely require that the EIT be compatible with such software and devices so that it can be made accessible if so required by the agency in
the future.  The quote must indicate where full details of compliance can be found (e.g., vendor’s website or other exact location or attach the
information).

4   INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE TERMS

4.1.  INSPECTION &ACCEPTANCE OF SERVICES.

 The activity is responsible for performing inspection and acceptance of the services called for under this contract is as follows:  THE  COR  OR
AN AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE AS INDICATED IN THIS CONTRACT WILL INSPECT AND ACCEPT THE PRODUCTS & SERVICES DEFINED IN THIS CONTRACT.


5.     CONTRACT MANAGEMENT

The following individuals will be the Government points of contact during the performance of this contract:


COR:                              Rolando Flores
                       571-305-6426
                       Rolando.Flores@dss.mil

TECHNICAL:                        Conrad Bovell
                                                Conrad.Bovell@dss.mil

CONTRACTING OFFICER:  Mr. Christopher Harris
                        571-305-6718
                        Christopher.harris@dss.mil

CONTRACT SPECIALIST:   Ms. Durba Ray
                       571-305-6721
                              Durba.ray@dss.mil








Provision
52.211-6 Brand Name or Equal (Aug 1999)

(a) If an item in this solicitation is identified as "brand name or equal," the purchase description reflects the characteristics and level of
quality that will satisfy the Government’s needs. The salient physical, functional, or performance characteristics that "equal" products must
meet are specified in the solicitation.
(b) To be considered for award, offers of "equal" products, including "equal" products of the brand name manufacturer, must--
(1)Meet the salient physical, functional, or performance characteristic specified by this solicitation;
(2) Clearly identify the item by--
(i) Brand name, if any; and
(ii)Make or model number;
(3) Include descriptive literature such as illustrations, drawings, or a clear reference to previously furnished descriptive data or information
available to the Contracting Officer; and
(4) Clearly describe any modifications the offeror plans to make in a product to make it conform to the solicitation requirements. Mark any
descriptive material to clearly show the modifications.
(c) The Contracting Officer will evaluate "equal" products on the basis of information furnished by the offeror or identified in the offer and
reasonably available to the Contracting Officer. The Contracting Officer is not responsible for locating or obtaining any information not
identified in the offer.
(d) Unless the offeror clearly indicates in its offer that the product being offered is an "equal" product, the offeror shall provide the brand
name product referenced in the solicitation.
(End of provision)

