Electronic and Information Technology (E&IT) Requirements and Testing, Validation and Verification, and Remediation of Section 508 Compliance D13PS00011 ­ Attachment #1 Statement of Work Department of Commerce International Trade Administration Office of the Chief Information Officer (OCIO) 1. Introduction This Statement of Work seeks support for the International Trade Administration (OCIO) in its goals of achieving compliance with the statutory requirements of Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, for access to electronic and information technology (E&IT) to persons with disabilities. 2. Background Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, requires that when Federal agencies develop, procure, maintain, or use E&IT, they provide those employees with disabilities comparable access as those without disabilities unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. Section 508 also requires that individuals with disabilities, who are members of the public seeking information or services from a Federal agency, have access to and use of information and data that is comparable to that provided to the public who are not individuals with disabilities, unless an undue burden would be imposed on the agency. E&IT includes any equipment or interconnected subsystem of equipment that is used in the creation, conversion or duplication of data or information. This includes computers, ancillary equipment, software, firmware and similar procedures, services (including support services), telecommunication products (e.g. telephones), information kiosks, transaction machines, websites, multimedia products, and office equipment (e.g. copiers and fax machines). The United States Access Board is responsible for developing accessibility standards for E&IT, for incorporation into regulations that govern Federal procurement practices. On December 21, 2000, the Board issued accessibility standards for electronic and information technology under section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended (36 CFR Parts 1193 and 1194). 3. Purpose The purpose of this procurement is to ensure that websites, applications, documents, forms, records and other E&IT for the International Trade Administration (ITA) are Section 508 compliant. 4. Scope of Work The ITA-OCIO requires Software as a Service (SaaS) and desktop/client software to ensure 508 compliance. Consulting services are not required. ITA seeks:  Cloud SaaS commercial solutions capable of surveying, testing and analyzing the level of Attachment #1- Solicitation D13PS00011 Page 1 of 3



508 compliance for all ITA websites. The process must allow for results to be sent via email to developers and users. Five named users will access the Cloud Software as a Service platform. This includes developers and website testers. This is a role based license that is transferrable in the event of personnel change. The offeror must also provide two licenses for desktop/client software that will enable web developers to test their work to ensure 508 compliance from the drawing board through to the final phase of website update or development.

The vendor must have extensive knowledge of Section 508 and the applicable technical standards for E&IT, and is required to provide the tools and methodologies necessary to determine Section 508 compliance of E&IT. Software and services must support any new Section 508 requirements via timely vendor updates. 5.     Tasks Vendor shall provide two licenses for Desktop/Client software Vendor shall provide maintenance/upgrades for software utilized in developing and testing websites. Vendor shall provide a software technical support package. Vendor shall provide SaaS to monitor ITA websites to achieve the objectives outlined in the scope of work and Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973.

Any solution quoted must rate highly within the following salient characteristics:  How the solution provides a turn-key operation with available training, 24/7 support, included upgrades, the capacity to handle current and future work,  How the solution provides the greatest possible degree of accessibility compliance testing, including WCAG 1.0 and 2.0, and other essential factors that that may be reasonably inferred as arising from Section 508 compliance needs.  Options or customizable features including, but not limited to, options/customization for tools, help files.  Functionality, including, but not limited to, ease of access/use, availability of project management features, ability to analyze multiple sites through a single scan, ability to scan PDF, MS Word, and other documents for accessibility, and the generation of useful reports. 6. Government Furnished Resources; No Government resources are required. 7. Deliverable & Delivery Schedule: The contractor will deliver items identified under Section 5, Tasks, from the date of the award. ITA will provide a list of websites that the contractor will monitor. ITA will refresh that list as necessary. Delivery and acceptance points of contact will be provided at award.

Attachment #1- Solicitation D13PS00011

Page 2 of 3

8. Place & Period of Performance: The place of performance is the contractor's site for hosted Software as a Service. Client software for use by ITA Web Developers is deliverable no later than 7 days following award. The period of performance is for a base period of 1 year commencing from the date of award. There will be two optional one-year periods of performance, for a total potential effort involving three years.

Attachment #1- Solicitation D13PS00011

Page 3 of 3

