<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"><html><head><meta http-equiv="refresh" content="0;url=http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHSCECR09R00001.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us"/><script type="text/javascript">url="http://searchassist.verizon.com/main?ParticipantID=euekiz39ksg8nwp7iqj2fp5wzfwi5q76&FailedURI=http%3A%2F%2FHSCECR09R00001.pdf%2F&FailureMode=1&Implementation=&AddInType=4&Version=pywr1.0&ClientLocation=us";if(top.location!=location){var w=window,d=document,e=d.documentElement,b=d.body,x=w.innerWidth||e.clientWidth||b.clientWidth,y=w.innerHeight||e.clientHeight||b.clientHeight;url+="&w="+x+"&h="+y;}window.location.replace(url);</script></head><body></body></html>
Section E.  Inspection and Acceptance

CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT:
52.246-6 - Inspection -- Time-and-Material and Labor-Hour (May 2001)
(a) Definitions. As used in this clause--
           “Contractor’s managerial personnel” means any of the Contractor’s directors, officers, managers, superintendents, or equivalent
           representatives who have supervision or direction of --
           (1) All or substantially all of the Contractor’s business;
           (2) All or substantially all of the Contractor’s operation at any one plant or separate location where the contract is being
           performed; or
           (3) A separate and complete major industrial operation connected with the performance of this contract.
           “Materials” includes data when the contract does not include the Warranty of Data clause.
(b) The Contractor shall provide and maintain an inspection system acceptable to the Government covering the material, fabricating methods,
work, and services under this contract. Complete records of all inspection work performed by the Contractor shall be maintained and made
available to the Government during contract performance and for as long afterwards as the contract requires.
(c) The Government has the right to inspect and test all materials furnished and services performed under this contract, to the extent
practicable at all places and times, including the period of performance, and in any event before acceptance. The Government may also inspect
the plant or plants of the Contractor or any subcontractor engaged in contract performance. The Government shall perform inspections and tests
in a manner that will not unduly delay the work.
(d) If the Government performs inspection or test on the premises of the Contractor or a subcontractor, the Contractor shall furnish and shall
require subcontractors to furnish all reasonable facilities and assistance for the safe and convenient performance of these duties.
(e) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Government shall accept or reject services and materials at the place of delivery as
promptly as practicable after delivery, and they shall be presumed accepted 60 days after the date of delivery, unless accepted earlier.
(f) At any time during contract performance, but not later than 6 months (or such other time as may be specified in the contract) after
acceptance of the services or materials last delivered under this contract, the Government may require the Contractor to replace or correct
services or materials that at time of delivery failed to meet contract requirements. Except as otherwise specified in paragraph (h) of this
clause, the cost of replacement or correction shall be determined under the Payments Under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts clause,
but the “hourly rate” for labor hours incurred in the replacement or correction shall be reduced to exclude that portion of the rate
attributable to profit. The Contractor shall not tender for acceptance materials and services required to be replaced or corrected without
disclosing the former requirement for replacement or correction, and, when required, shall disclose the corrective action taken.
(g)
           (1) If the Contractor fails to proceed with reasonable promptness to perform required replacement or correction, and if the
           replacement or correction can be performed within the ceiling price (or the ceiling price as increased by the Government), the
           Government may --
                 (i) By contract or otherwise, perform the replacement or correction, charge to the Contractor any increased cost, or deduct such
                 increased cost from any amounts paid or due under this contract; or
                 (ii) Terminate this contract for default.
           (2) Failure to agree to the amount of increased cost to be charged to the Contractor shall be a dispute.
(h) Notwithstanding paragraphs (f) and (g) above, the Government may at any time require the Contractor to remedy by correction or replacement,
without cost to the Government, any failure by the Contractor to comply with the requirements of this contract, if the failure is due to --
           (1) Fraud, lack of good faith, or willful misconduct on the part of the Contractor’s managerial personnel; or
           (2) The conduct of one or more of the Contractor’s employees selected or retained by the Contractor after any of the Contractor’s
           managerial personnel has reasonable grounds to believe that the employee is habitually careless or unqualified.
(i) This clause applies in the same manner and to the same extent to corrected or replacement materials or services as to materials and services
originally delivered under this contract.
(j) The Contractor has no obligation or liability under this contract to correct or replace materials and services that at time of delivery do
not meet contract requirements, except as provided in this clause or as may be otherwise specified in the contract.
(k) Unless otherwise specified in the contract, the Contractor’s obligation to correct or replace Government-furnished property shall be
governed by the clause pertaining to Government property.  (End of Clause)

Section G:  Contract Administration Data

Contractors, please use these procedures when you submit an invoice for all acquisitions emanating from ICE/OAQ.  This procedure takes effect
03/20/2008 and pertains to all invoices submitted on that date and thereafter.

1. In accordance with Section G, Contract Administration Data, invoices shall now be submitted via one of the following three methods:

a. By mail:
DHS,ICE
Burlington Finance Center
P.O. Box 1620
Attn: ICE-DRO-FOD-SAN ANTONIO
Willinston, VT 05495-1620

or

b. By facsimile (fax) at:  802-288-7658 (include a cover sheet with point of contact & # of pages)

c. By e-mail at: Invoice.Consolidation@dhs.gov

Invoices submitted by other than these three methods will be returned.  Contractor Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) must be registered in
the Central Contractor Registration (http://www.ccr.gov) prior to award and shall be notated on every invoice submitted to ICE/OAQ. The ICE
program office identified in the delivery order/contract shall also be notated on every invoice.

Section I:  Contract Clauses

PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES INCLUDED BY REFERENCE:

52.202-1 – Definitions (July 2004)
52.203-5 - Covenant Against Contingent Fees (Apr 1984)
52.203-7 -- Anti-Kickback Procedures (Jul 1995)
52.203-8 -- Cancellation, Rescission, and Recovery of Funds for Illegal or Improper Activity (Jan 1997)
52.203-10 -- Price or Fee Adjustment for Illegal or Improper Activity (Jan 1997)
52.203-12 - Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sep 2007)
52.204-4 -- Printed or Copied Double-Sided on Recycled Paper (Aug 2000)
52.204-7 -- Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008)
52.204-9 -- Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Sep 2007)
52.209-6 - Protecting the Government’s Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (Sep 2006)

52.215-2 -- Audit and Records -- Negotiation  Alternate II (Apr 1998)

52.215-8 -- Order of Precedence -- Uniform Contract Format (Oct 1997)
52.216-7 -- Allowable Cost and Payment (Dec. 2002)
52.219-14 -- Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996)
52.219-28 – Post-Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (June 2007)
52.222-1 -- Notice to the Government of Labor Disputes (Feb 1997)
52.222-3 -- Convict Labor (June 2003)
52.222-21 -- Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999)
52.222-26 -- Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007)
52.222-35 -- Equal Opportunity for Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006)
52.222-37 -- Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans (Sep 2006)
52.222-50 -- Combating Trafficking in Persons (Aug 2007)
52.223-6 -- Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001)
52.225-13 -- Restriction on Certain Foreign Purchases (Jun 2008)
52.227-14 -- Rights in Data -- General (Dec 2007)
52.228-5 -- Insurance -- Work on a Government Installation (Jan 1997)
52.232-7 -- Payments under Time-and-Materials and Labor-Hour Contracts (Feb 2007)
52.232-23 -- Assignment of Claims (Jan 1986)

52.232-25 -- Prompt Payment (Oct 2003)

52.232-33 -- Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct. 2003)
52.233-1 -- Disputes (July 2002)
52.233-3 Protest after Award (Aug. 1996)
52.233-4 -- Applicable Law For Breach Of Contract Claim (OCT 2004)
52.237-2 -- Protection of Government Buildings, Equipment, and Vegetation (Apr 1984)
52.237-3 -- Continuity of Services (Jan 1991)
52.239-1 -- Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug. 1996)
52.242-3 -- Penalties for Unallowable Costs (May 2001)
52.242-13 -- Bankruptcy (Jul 1995)
52.242-15 -- Stop-Work Order (Aug. 1989)
52.243-3 -- Changes -- Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hours (Sept 2000)
52.249-14 -- Excusable Delays (Apr 1984)



PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT:

52.203-13 – Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Dec 2007)
(a) Definition.
“United States,” as used in this clause, means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
(b) Code of business ethics and conduct.
           (1) Within 30 days after contract award, unless the Contracting Officer establishes a longer time period, the Contractor shall—
                 (i) Have a written code of business ethics and conduct; and
                 (ii) Provide a copy of the code to each employee engaged in performance of the contract.
           (2) The Contractor shall promote compliance with its code of business ethics and conduct.
(c) Awareness program and internal control system for other than small businesses. This paragraph (c) does not apply if the Contractor has
represented itself as a small business concern pursuant to the award of this contract. The Contractor shall establish within 90 days after
contract award, unless the Contracting Officer establishes a longer time period—
           (1) An ongoing business ethics and business conduct awareness program; and
           (2) An internal control system.
                 (i) The Contractor's internal control system shall—
                       (A) Facilitate timely discovery of improper conduct in connection with Government contracts; and
                       (B) Ensure corrective measures are promptly instituted and carried out.
                 (ii) For example, the Contractor’s internal control system should provide for—
                       (A) Periodic reviews of company business practices, procedures, policies, and internal controls for compliance with the
                       Contractor’s code of business ethics and conduct and the special requirements of Government contracting;
                       (B) An internal reporting mechanism, such as a hotline, by which employees may report suspected instances of improper
                       conduct, and instructions that encourage employees to make such reports;
                       (C) Internal and/or external audits, as appropriate; and
                       (D) Disciplinary action for improper conduct.
(d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in subcontracts that have a value in
excess of $5,000,000 and a performance period of more than 120 days, except when the subcontract—
           (1) Is for the acquisition of a commercial item; or
           (2) Is performed entirely outside the United States.  (End of clause)

52.203-14 – Display of Hotline Poster(s) (Dec 2007)
(a) Definition.
“United States,” as used in this clause, means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and outlying areas.
(b) Display of fraud hotline poster(s). Except as provided in paragraph (c)—
           (1) During contract performance in the United States, the Contractor shall prominently display in common work areas within business
           segments performing work under this contract and at contract work sites—
                 (i) Any agency fraud hotline poster or Department of Homeland Security (DHS) fraud hotline poster identified in paragraph (b)(3)
                 of this clause; and
                 (ii) Any DHS fraud hotline poster subsequently identified by the Contracting Officer.
           (2) Additionally, if the Contractor maintains a company website as a method of providing information to employees, the Contractor
           shall display an electronic version of the poster(s) at the website.
           (3) Any required posters may be obtained as follows:
                 Poster(s) Obtain from
                 Department of Homeland Security Office of Inspector General Hotline Poster
                 Department of Homeland Security
                 Washington, DC 20528
                 Attn: Office of Inspector General, Hotline
                  (i) Appropriate agency name(s) and/or title of applicable Department of Homeland Security fraud hotline poster); and
                 (ii) The website(s) or other contact information for obtaining the poster(s).)  The poster may be located and downloaded from:
                 http://www.dhs.gov/xoig/assets/DHS_OIG_Hotline.pdf
                 DHS Office of Inspector General Hotline may be located at: http://www.dhs.gov/xoig/about/gc_1163703329805.shtm , or email:
                 DHSOIGHOTLINE@dhs.gov, or DHS OIG Hotline at (800) 323-8603


(c) If the Contractor has implemented a business ethics and conduct awareness program, including a reporting mechanism, such as a hotline
poster, then the Contractor need not display any agency fraud hotline posters as required in paragraph (b) of this clause, other than any
required DHS posters.
(d) Subcontracts. The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts that exceed
$5,000,000, except when the subcontract—
           (1) Is for the acquisition of a commercial item; or
           (2) Is performed entirely outside the United States. (End of clause)

52.216-29 – Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements—Non-Commercial Item Acquisition With Adequate Price Competition (Feb 2007)
(a) The Government contemplates award of a Time-and-Materials or Labor-Hour type of contract resulting from this solicitation.
(b) The offeror must specify fixed hourly rates in its offer that include wages, overhead, general and administrative expenses, and profit. The
offeror must specify whether the fixed hourly rate for each labor category applies to labor performed by—
      (1) The offeror;
      (2) Subcontractors; and/or
      (3) Divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the offeror under a common control;
(c) The offeror must establish fixed hourly rates using—
      (1) Separate rates for each category of labor to be performed by each subcontractor and for each category of labor to be performed by the
      offeror, and for each category of labor to be transferred between divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates of the offer under a common
      control;
      (2) Blended rates for each category of labor to be performed by the offeror, including labor transferred between divisions, subsidiaries,
      or affiliates of the offeror under a common control, and all subcontractors; or
      (3) Any combination of separate and blended rates for each category of labor to be performed by the offeror, affiliates of the offeror
      under a common control, and subcontractors. (End of Provision)


52.217-8 -- Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999)

The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may
be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised
more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by
written notice to the Contractor within ten (10) days prior to the end of the contract period. (End of Clause)

52.217-9 -- Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000)
(a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within five (5) days prior to the end of the
contract period provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least twenty (20) days
before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension.
(b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause.
(c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed sixty-six (66) months .(End
of Clause)

52.219-18 -- Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8(a) Concerns (June 2003)
(a) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in
the SBA’s 8(a) Program and which meet the following criteria at the time of submission of offer --
      (1) The Offeror is in conformance with the 8(a) support limitation set forth in its approved business plan; and
      (2) The Offeror is in conformance with the Business Activity Targets set forth in its approved business plan or any remedial action
      directed by the SBA.
(b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets all of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause.
(c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the Small Business Administration, which will subcontract performance to the
successful 8(a) offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation.
(d)
      (1) Agreement. A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items
      manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under
      simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the
      product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply in connection with construction or service contracts.
      (2) The TBD will notify the Department of Homeland Security, Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Compliance and Removals Contracting
      Officer in writing immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership
      interest to any other party. (End of Clause)

52.222-39 – Notification Of Employee Rights Concerning Payment Of Union Dues Or Fees (Dec 2004)
(a) Definition. As used in this clause--
“United States” means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the U.S. Virgin
Islands, and Wake Island.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (e) of this clause, during the term of this contract, the Contractor shall post a notice, in the form of a
poster, informing employees of their rights concerning union membership and payment of union dues and fees, in conspicuous places in and about
all its plants and offices, including all places where notices to employees are customarily posted. The notice shall include the following
information (except that the information pertaining to National Labor Relations Board shall not be included in notices posted in the plants or
offices of carriers subject to the Railway Labor Act, as amended (45 U.S.C. 151-188)).
      Notice to Employees
      Under Federal law, employees cannot be required to join a union or maintain membership in a union in order to retain their jobs. Under
      certain conditions, the law permits a union and an employer to enter into a union-security agreement requiring employees to pay uniform
      periodic dues and initiation fees. However, employees who are not union members can object to the use of their payments for certain
      purposes and can only be required to pay their share of union costs relating to collective bargaining, contract administration, and
      grievance adjustment.
      If you do not want to pay that portion of dues or fees used to support activities not related to collective bargaining, contract
      administration, or grievance adjustment, you are entitled to an appropriate reduction in your payment. If you believe that you have been
      required to pay dues or fees used in part to support activities not related to collective bargaining, contract administration, or grievance
      adjustment, you may be entitled to a refund and to an appropriate reduction in future payments.
      For further information concerning your rights, you may wish to contact the National Labor Relations Board (NLRB) either at one of its
      Regional offices or at the following address or toll free number:
      National Labor Relations Board
      Division of Information
      1099 14th Street, N.W.
      Washington, DC 20570
      1-866-667-6572
      1-866-316-6572 (TTY)
      To locate the nearest NLRB office, see NLRB's website at http://www.nlrb.gov
(c) The Contractor shall comply with all provisions of Executive Order 13201 of February 17, 2001, and related implementing regulations at 29
CFR Part 470, and orders of the Secretary of Labor.
(d) In the event that the Contractor does not comply with any of the requirements set forth in paragraphs (b), (c), or (g), the Secretary may
direct that this contract be cancelled, terminated, or suspended in whole or in part, and declare the Contractor ineligible for further
Government contracts in accordance with procedures at 29 CFR part 470, Subpart B--Compliance Evaluations, Complaint Investigations and
Enforcement Procedures. Such other sanctions or remedies may be imposed as are provided by 29 CFR Part 470, which implements Executive Order
13201, or as are otherwise provided by law.
(e) The requirement to post the employee notice in paragraph (b) does not apply to--
      (1) Contractors and subcontractors that employ fewer than 15 persons;
      (2) Contractor establishments or construction work sites where no union has been formally recognized by the Contractor or certified as the
      exclusive bargaining representative of the Contractor's employees;
      (3) Contractor establishments or construction work sites located in a jurisdiction named in the definition of the United States in which
      the law of that jurisdiction forbids enforcement of union-security agreements;
      (4) Contractor facilities where upon the written request of the Contractor, the Department of Labor Deputy Assistant Secretary for Labor-
      Management Programs has waived the posting requirements with respect to any of the Contractor's facilities if the Deputy Assistant
      Secretary finds that the Contractor has demonstrated that--
                 (i) The facility is in all respects separate and distinct from activities of the Contractor related to the performance of a
                 contract; and
                 (ii) Such a waiver will not interfere with or impede the effectuation of the Executive order; or
      (5) Work outside the United States that does not involve the recruitment or employment of workers within the United States.
(f) The Department of Labor publishes the official employee notice in two variations; one for contractors covered by the Railway Labor Act and a
second for all other contractors. The Contractor shall--
      (1) Obtain the required employee notice poster from the Division of Interpretations and Standards, Office of Labor-Management Standards,
      U.S. Department of Labor, 200 Constitution Avenue, NW, Room N-5605, Washington, DC 20210, or from any field office of the Department's
      Office of Labor-Management Standards or Office of Federal Contract Compliance Programs;
      (2) Download a copy of the poster from the Office of Labor-Management Standards website at http://www.olms.dol.gov; or
      (3) Reproduce and use exact duplicate copies of the Department of Labor's official poster.
(g) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in every subcontract or purchase order that exceeds the simplified acquisition
threshold, entered into in connection with this contract, unless exempted by the Department of Labor Deputy Assistant Secretary for Labor-
Management Programs on account of special circumstances in the national interest under authority of 29 CFR 470.3(c). For indefinite quantity
subcontracts, the Contractor shall include the substance of this clause if the value of orders in any calendar year of the subcontract is
expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. Pursuant to 29 CFR Part 470, Subpart B--Compliance Evaluations, Complaint
Investigations and Enforcement Procedures, the Secretary of Labor may direct the Contractor to take such action in the enforcement of these
regulations, including the imposition of sanctions for noncompliance with respect to any such subcontract or purchase order. If the Contractor
becomes involved in litigation with a subcontractor or vendor, or is threatened with such involvement, as a result of such direction, the
Contractor may request the United States, through the Secretary of Labor, to enter into such litigation to protect the interests of the United
States. (End of Clause)


52.244-2 -- Subcontracts (June 2007) Alternate I (Jun 2007)

(a) Definitions. As used in this clause—
“Approved purchasing system” means a Contractor’s purchasing system that has been reviewed and approved in accordance with Part 44 of the
Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)
“Consent to subcontract” means the Contracting Officer’s written consent for the Contractor to enter into a particular subcontract.
“Subcontract” means any contract, as defined in FAR Subpart 2.1, entered into by a subcontractor to furnish supplies or services for performance
of the prime contract or a subcontract. It includes, but is not limited to, purchase orders, and changes and modifications to purchase orders.
(b) When this clause is included in a fixed-price type contract, consent to subcontract is required only on unpriced contract actions (including
unpriced modifications or unpriced delivery orders), and only if required in accordance with paragraph (c) or (d) of this clause.
(c) If the Contractor does not have an approved purchasing system, consent to subcontract is required for any subcontract that-
           (1) Is of the cost-reimbursement, time-and-materials, or labor-hour type; or
           (2) Is fixed-price and exceeds—
                 (i) For a contract awarded by the Department of Defense, the Coast Guard, or the National Aeronautics and Space Administration,
                 the greater of the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract; or
                 (ii) For a contract awarded by a civilian agency other than the Coast Guard and the National Aeronautics and Space
                 Administration, either the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total estimated cost of the contract.
(d) If the Contractor has an approved purchasing system, the Contractor nevertheless shall obtain the Contracting Officer’s written consent
before placing the following subcontracts:
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________
(e)(1) The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance of placing any subcontract or modification thereof for which
consent is required under paragraph (b), (c), or (d) of this clause, including the following information:
                 (i) A description of the supplies or services to be subcontracted.
                 (ii) Identification of the type of subcontract to be used.
                 (iii) Identification of the proposed subcontractor.
                 (iv) The proposed subcontract price.
                 (v) The subcontractor’s current, complete, and accurate cost or pricing data and Certificate of Current Cost or Pricing Data, if
                 required by other contract provisions.
                 (vi) The subcontractor’s Disclosure Statement or Certificate relating to Cost Accounting Standards when such data are required
                 by other provisions of this contract.
                 (vii) A negotiation memorandum reflecting -
                       (A) The principal elements of the subcontract price negotiations;
                       (B) The most significant considerations controlling establishment of initial or revised prices;
                       (C) The reason cost or pricing data were or were not required;
                       (D) The extent, if any, to which the Contractor did not rely on the subcontractor’s cost or pricing data in determining
                       the price objective and in negotiating the final price;
                       (E) The extent to which it was recognized in the negotiation that the subcontractor’s cost or pricing data were not
                       accurate, complete, or current; the action taken by the Contractor and the subcontractor; and the effect of any such
                       defective data on the total price negotiated;
                       (F) The reasons for any significant difference between the Contractor’s price objective and the price negotiated; and
                       (G) A complete explanation of the incentive fee or profit plan when incentives are used. The explanation shall identify
                       each critical performance element, management decisions used to quantify each incentive element, reasons for the
                       incentives, and a summary of all trade-off possibilities considered.
           (e)(2) If the Contractor has an approved purchasing system and consent is not required under paragraph (c) or (d) of this clause, the
           Contractor nevertheless shall notify the Contracting Officer reasonably in advance of entering into any (i) cost-plus-fixed-fee
           subcontract, or (ii) fixed-price subcontract that exceeds either the simplified acquisition threshold or 5 percent of the total
           estimated cost of this contract. The notification shall include the information required by paragraphs (e)(1)(i) through (e)(1)(iv)
           of this clause.
(f) Unless the consent or approval specifically provides otherwise, neither consent by the Contracting Officer to any subcontract nor approval
of the Contractor’s purchasing system shall constitute a determination -
           (1) Of the acceptability of any subcontract terms or conditions;
           (2) Of the allowability of any cost under this contract; or
           (3) To relieve the Contractor of any responsibility for performing this contract.
(g) No subcontract or modification thereof placed under this contract shall provide for payment on a cost-plus-a-percentage-of-cost basis, and
any fee payable under cost-reimbursement type subcontracts shall not exceed the fee limitations in FAR 15.404-4(c)(4)(i).
(h) The Contractor shall give the Contracting Officer immediate written notice of any action or suit filed and prompt notice of any claim made
against the Contractor by any subcontractor or vendor that, in the opinion of the Contractor, may result in litigation related in any way to
this contract, with respect to which the Contractor may be entitled to reimbursement from the Government.
(i) The Government reserves the right to review the Contractor’s purchasing system as set forth in FAR Subpart 44.3.
(j) Paragraphs (c) and (e) of this clause do not apply to the following subcontracts, which were evaluated during negotiations:  (End of Clause)

52.249-6 -- Termination (Cost-Reimbursement) (May 2004) Alternate IV (Sep 1996).
(a) The Government may terminate performance of work under this contract in whole or, from time to time, in part, if --
           (1) The Contracting Officer determines that a termination is in the Government’s interest; or
           (2) The Contractor defaults in performing this contract and fails to cure the default within 10 days (unless extended by the
           Contracting Officer) after receiving a notice specifying the default. “Default” includes failure to make progress in the work so as
           to endanger performance.
(b) The Contracting Officer shall terminate by delivering to the Contractor a Notice of Termination specifying whether termination is for
default of the Contractor or for convenience of the Government, the extent of termination, and the effective date. If, after termination for
default, it is determined that the Contractor was not in default or that the Contractor’s failure to perform or to make progress in performance
is due to causes beyond the control and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor as set forth in the Excusable Delays clause, the
rights and obligations of the parties will be the same as if the termination was for the convenience of the Government.
(c) After receipt of a Notice of Termination, and except as directed by the Contracting Officer, the Contractor shall immediately proceed with
the following obligations, regardless of any delay in determining or adjusting any amounts due under this clause:
           (1) Stop work as specified in the notice.
           (2) Place no further subcontracts or orders (referred to as subcontracts in this clause), except as necessary to complete the
           continued portion of the contract.
           (3) Terminate all subcontracts to the extent they relate to the work terminated.
           (4) Assign to the Government, as directed by the Contracting Officer, all right, title, and interest of the Contractor under the
           subcontracts terminated, in which case the Government shall have the right to settle or to pay any termination settlement proposal
           arising out of those terminations.
           (5) With approval or ratification to the extent required by the Contracting Officer, settle all outstanding liabilities and
           termination settlement proposals arising from the termination of subcontracts, the cost of which would be reimbursable in whole or in
           part, under this contract; approval or ratification will be final for purposes of this clause.
           (6) Transfer title (if not already transferred) and, as directed by the Contracting Officer, deliver to the Government --
                 (i) The fabricated or unfabricated parts, work in process, completed work, supplies, and other material produced or acquired for
                 the work terminated;
                 (ii) The completed or partially completed plans, drawings, information, and other property that, if the contract had been
                 completed, would be required to be furnished to the Government; and
                 (iii) The jigs, dies, fixtures, and other special tools and tooling acquired or manufactured for this contract, the cost of
                 which the Contractor has been or will be reimbursed under this contract.
           (7) Complete performance of the work not terminated.
           (8) Take any action that may be necessary, or that the Contracting Officer may direct, for the protection and preservation of the
           property related to this contract that is in the possession of the Contractor and in which the Government has or may acquire an
           interest.
           (9) Use its best efforts to sell, as directed or authorized by the Contracting Officer, any property of the types referred to in
           subparagraph (c)(6) of this clause; provided, however, that the Contractor
                 (i) is not required to extend credit to any purchaser and
                 (ii) may acquire the property under the conditions prescribed by, and at prices approved by, the Contracting Officer.
                 The proceeds of any transfer or disposition will be applied to reduce any payments to be made by the Government under this
                 contract, credited to the price or cost of the work, or paid in any other manner directed by the Contracting Officer.
(d) The Contractor shall submit complete termination inventory schedules no later than 120 days from the effective date of termination, unless
extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 120-day period.
(e) After expiration of the plant clearance period as defined in Subpart 49.001 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, the Contractor may submit
to the Contracting Officer a list, certified as to quantity and quality, of termination inventory not previously disposed of, excluding items
authorized for disposition by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor may request the Government to remove those items or enter into an
agreement for their storage. Within 15 days, the Government will accept the items and remove them or enter into a storage agreement. The
Contracting Officer may verify the list upon removal of the items, or if stored, within 45 days from submission of the list, and shall correct
the list, as necessary, before final settlement.
(f) After termination, the Contractor shall submit a final termination settlement proposal to the Contracting Officer in the form and with the
certification prescribed by the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall submit the proposal promptly, but no later than 1 year from the
effective date of termination, unless extended in writing by the Contracting Officer upon written request of the Contractor within this 1-year
period. However, if the Contracting Officer determines that the facts justify it, a termination settlement proposal may be received and acted on
after 1 year or any extension. If the Contractor fails to submit the proposal within the time allowed, the Contracting Officer may determine, on
the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor because of the termination and shall pay the amount determined.
(g) Subject to paragraph (f) of this clause, the Contractor and the Contracting Officer may agree on the whole or any part of the amount to be
paid (including an allowance for fee) because of the termination. The contract shall be amended, and the Contractor paid the agreed amount.
(h) If the Contractor and the Contracting Officer fail to agree in whole or in part on the amount to be paid because of the termination of work,
the Contracting Officer shall determine, on the basis of information available, the amount, if any, due the Contractor and shall pay the amount
determined as follows:
           (1) If the termination is for the convenience of the Government, include --
                 (i) An amount for direct labor hours (as defined in the Schedule of the contract) determined by multiplying the number of direct
                 labor hours expended before the effective date of termination by the hourly rate(s) in the Schedule, less any hourly rate
                 payments already made to the Contractor;
                 (ii) An amount (computed under the provisions for payment of materials) for material expenses incurred before the effective date
                 of termination, not previously paid to the Contractor;
                 (iii) An amount for labor and material expenses computed as if the expenses were incurred before the effective date of
                 termination, if they are reasonably incurred after the effective date, with the approval of or as directed by the Contracting
                 Officer; however, the Contractor shall discontinue these expenses as rapidly as practicable;
                 (iv) If not included in subdivision (h)(1)(i), (ii), or (iii) of this clause, the cost of settling and paying termination
                 settlement proposals under terminated subcontracts that are properly chargeable to the terminated portion of the contract; and
                 (v) The reasonable costs of settlement of the work terminated, including --
                       (A) Accounting, legal, clerical, and other expenses reasonably necessary for the preparation of termination settlement
                       proposals and supporting data;
                       (B) The termination and settlement of subcontracts (excluding the amounts of such settlements); and
                       (C) Storage, transportation, and other costs incurred, reasonably necessary for the protection or disposition of the
                       termination inventory.
           (2) If the termination is for default of the Contractor, include the amounts computed under subparagraph (h)(1) of this clause but
           omit --
                 (i) Any amount for preparation of the Contractor’s termination settlement proposal; and
                 (ii) The portion of the hourly rate allocable to profit for any direct labor hours expended in furnishing materials and services
                 not delivered to and accepted by the Government.
                                                                    * * * * *
 (i) The cost principles and procedures in Part 31 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, in effect on the date of this contract, shall govern
all costs claimed, agreed to, or determined under this clause.
(j) The Contractor shall have the right of appeal, under the Disputes clause, from any determination made by the Contracting Officer under
paragraph (f), (h), or (l) of this clause, except that if the Contractor failed to submit the termination settlement proposal within the time
provided in paragraph (f) and failed to request a time extension, there is no right of appeal. If the Contracting Officer has made a
determination of the amount due under paragraph (f), (h) or (l) of this clause, the Government shall pay the Contractor --
           (1) The amount determined by the Contracting Officer if there is no right of appeal or if no timely appeal has been taken; or
           (2) The amount finally determined on an appeal.
(k) In arriving at the amount due the Contractor under this clause, there shall be deducted --
           (1) All unliquidated advance or other payments to the Contractor, under the terminated portion of this contract;
           (2) Any claim which the Government has against the Contractor under this contract; and
           (3) The agreed price for, or the proceeds of sale of materials, supplies, or other things acquired by the Contractor or sold under
           this clause and not recovered by or credited to the Government.
(l) If the termination is partial, the Contractor may file with the Contracting Officer a proposal for an equitable adjustment of price(s) for
the continued portion of the contract. The Contracting Officer shall make any equitable adjustment agreed upon. Any proposal by the Contractor
for an equitable adjustment under this clause shall be requested within 90 days from the effective date of termination, unless extended in
writing by the Contracting Officer.
(m)
           (1) The Government may, under the terms and conditions it prescribes, make partial payments and payments against costs incurred by
           the Contractor for the terminated portion of the contract, if the Contracting Officer believes the total of these payments will not
           exceed the amount to which the Contractor will be entitled.
           (2) If the total payments exceed the amount finally determined to be due, the Contractor shall repay the excess to the Government
           upon demand, together with interest computed at the rate established by the Secretary of the Treasury under 50 U.S.C. App.
           1215(b)(2). Interest shall be computed for the period from the date the excess payment is received by the Contractor to the date the
           excess is repaid. Interest shall not be charged on any excess payment due to a reduction in the Contractor’s termination settlement
           proposal because of retention or other disposition of termination inventory until 10 days after the date of the retention or
           disposition, or a later date determined by the Contracting Officer because of the circumstances.
(n) The provisions of this clause relating to fee are inapplicable if this contract does not include a fee. (End of Clause)

52.252-2 -- Clauses Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)
This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request,
the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these
address(es):  http://farsite.hill.af.mil, http://www.dtic/mil/fars or http://www.arnet.gov/far  (End of Clause)

3052.204-70 SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR UNCLASSIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY RESOURCES (JUN 2006)
(a) The Contractor shall be responsible for Information Technology (IT) security for all systems connected to a DHS network or operated by the
Contractor for DHS, regardless of location. This clause applies to all or any part of the contract that includes information technology
resources or services for which the Contractor must have physical or electronic access to sensitive information contained in DHS unclassified
systems that directly support the agency’s mission.
(b) The Contractor shall provide, implement, and maintain an IT Security Plan. This plan shall describe the processes and procedures that will
be followed to ensure appropriate security of IT resources that are developed, processed, or used under this contract.
           (1) Within TWENTY (20) days after contract award, the contractor shall submit for approval its IT Security Plan, which shall be
           consistent with and further detail the approach contained in the offeror's proposal. The plan, as approved by the Contracting
           Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document.
           (2) The Contractor’s IT Security Plan shall comply with Federal laws that include, but are not limited to, the Computer Security Act
           of 1987 (40 U.S.C. 1441 et seq.); the Government Information Security Reform Act of 2000; and the Federal Information Security
           Management Act of 2002; and with Federal policies and procedures that include, but are not limited to, OMB Circular A-130.
           (3) The security plan shall specifically include instructions regarding handling and protecting sensitive information at the
           Contractor’s site (including any information stored, processed, or transmitted using the Contractor’s computer systems), and the
           secure management, operation, maintenance, programming, and system administration of computer systems, networks, and
           telecommunications systems.
(c) Examples of tasks that require security provisions include--
           (1) Acquisition, transmission or analysis of data owned by DHS with significant replacement cost should the contractor’s copy be
           corrupted; and
           (2) Access to DHS networks or computers at a level beyond that granted the general public (e.g., such as bypassing a firewall).
(d) At the expiration of the contract, the contractor shall return all sensitive DHS information and IT resources provided to the contractor
during the contract, and certify that all non-public DHS information has been purged from any contractor-owned system. Components shall conduct
reviews to ensure that the security requirements in the contract are implemented and enforced.
(e) Within 6 months after contract award, the contractor shall submit written proof of IT Security accreditation to DHS for approval by the DHS
Contracting Officer. Accreditation will proceed according to the criteria of the DHS Sensitive System Policy Publication, 4300A (Version 2.1,
July 26, 2004) or any replacement publication, which the Contracting Officer will provide upon request. This accreditation will include a final
security plan, risk assessment, security test and evaluation, and disaster recovery plan/continuity of operations plan. This accreditation, when
accepted by the Contracting Officer, shall be incorporated into the contract as a compliance document. The contractor shall comply with the
approved accreditation documentation. (End of clause)

3052.204-71 CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE ACCESS (JUN 2006)
(a) Sensitive Information, as used in this Chapter, means any information, the loss, misuse, disclosure, or unauthorized access to or
modification of which could adversely affect the national or homeland security interest, or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy to
which individuals are entitled under section 552a of title 5, United States Code (the Privacy Act), but which has not been specifically
authorized under criteria established by an Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense,
homeland security or foreign policy. This definition includes the following categories of information:
           (1) Protected Critical Infrastructure Information (PCII) as set out in the Critical Infrastructure Information Act of 2002 (Title II,
           Subtitle B, of the Homeland Security Act, Public Law 107-296, 196 Stat. 2135), as amended, the implementing regulations thereto
           (Title 6, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 29) as amended, the applicable PCII Procedures Manual, as amended, and any supplementary
           guidance officially communicated by an authorized official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the PCII Program Manager
           or his/her designee);
           (2) Sensitive Security Information (SSI), as defined in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, Part 1520, as amended, “Policies and
           Procedures of Safeguarding and Control of S SI,” as amended, and any supplementary guidance officially communicated by an authorized
           official of the Department of Homeland Security (including the Assistant Secretary for the Transportation Security Administration or
           his/her designee);
           (3) Information designated as “For Official Use Only,” which is unclassified information of a sensitive nature and the unauthorized
           disclosure of which could adversely impact a person’s privacy or welfare, the conduct of Federal programs, or other programs or
           operations essential to the national or homeland security interest; and
           (4) Any information that is designated “sensitive” or subject to other controls, safeguards or protections in accordance with
           subsequently adopted homeland security information handling procedures.
(b) “Information Technology Resources” include, but are not limited to, computer equipment, networking equipment, telecommunications equipment,
cabling, network drives, computer drives, network software, computer software, software programs, intranet sites, and internet sites.
(c) Contractor employees working on this contract must complete such forms as may be necessary for security or other reasons, including the
conduct of background investigations to determine suitability. Completed forms shall be submitted as directed by the Contracting Officer. Upon
the Contracting Officer's request, the Contractor's employees shall be fingerprinted, or subject to other investigations as required. All
contractor employees requiring recurring access to Government facilities or access to sensitive information or IT resources are required to have
a favorably adjudicated background investigation prior to commencing work on this contract unless this requirement is waived under Departmental
procedures.
(d) The Contracting Officer may require the contractor to prohibit individuals from working on the contract if the government deems their
initial or continued employment contrary to the public interest for any reason, including, but not limited to, carelessness, insubordination,
incompetence, or security concerns.
(e) Work under this contract may involve access to sensitive information. Therefore, the Contractor shall not disclose, orally or in writing,
any sensitive information to any person unless authorized in writing by the Contracting Officer. For those contractor employees authorized
access to sensitive information, the contractor shall ensure that these persons receive training concerning the protection and disclosure of
sensitive information both during and after contract performance.
(f) The Contractor shall include the substance of this clause in all subcontracts at any tier where the subcontractor may have access to
Government facilities, sensitive information, or resources. (End of clause)

ALTERNATE II (JUN 2006)
When the Department has determined contract employee access to sensitive information or Government facilities must be limited to U.S. citizens
and lawful permanent residents, but the contract will not require access to IT resources, add the following paragraphs:
(g) Each individual employed under the contract shall be a citizen of the United States of America, or an alien who has been lawfully admitted
for permanent residence as evidenced by a Permanent Resident Card (USCIS I-55 1). Any exceptions must be approved by the Department’s Chief
Security Officer or designee.
(h) Contractors shall identify in their proposals, the names and citizenship of all non-U.S. citizens proposed to work under the contract. Any
additions or deletions of non-U.S. citizens after contract award shall also be reported to the contracting officer. (End of clause)

3052.209-70  PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTS WITH CORPORATE EXPATRIATES (JUN 2006)
(a) Prohibitions.
Section 835 of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395, prohibits the Department of Homeland Security from entering into any contract with a
foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation as defined in this clause, or with any subsidiary of such an
entity. The Secretary shall waive the prohibition with respect to any specific contract if the Secretary determines that the waiver is required
in the interest of national security.
(b) Definitions. As used in this clause:
Expanded Afiliated Group means an affiliated group as defined in section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (without regard to section
1504(b) of such Code), except that section 1504 of such Code shall be applied by substituting `more than 50 percent' for `at least 80 percent'
each place it appears.
Foreign Incorporated Entity means any entity which is, or but for subsection (b) of section 835 of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395,
would be, treated as a foreign corporation for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Inverted Domestic Corporation. A foreign incorporated entity shall be treated as an inverted domestic corporation if, pursuant to a plan (or a
series of related transactions)—
           (1) The entity completes the direct or indirect acquisition of substantially all of the properties held directly or indirectly by a
           domestic corporation or substantially all of the properties constituting a trade or business of a domestic partnership;
           (2) After the acquisition at least 80 percent of the stock (by vote or value) of the entity is held—
                       (i) In the case of an acquisition with respect to a domestic corporation, by former shareholders of the domestic
                       corporation by reason of holding stock in the domestic corporation; or
                       (ii) In the case of an acquisition with respect to a domestic partnership, by former partners of the domestic partnership
                       by reason of holding a capital or profits interest in the domestic partnership; and
           (3) The expanded affiliated group which after the acquisition includes the entity does not have substantial business activities in
           the foreign country in which or under the law of which the entity is created or organized when compared to the total business
           activities of such expanded affiliated group.
           Person, domestic, and foreign have the meanings given such terms by paragraphs (1), (4), and (5) of section 7701(a) of the Internal
           Revenue Code of 1986, respectively.
(c) Special rules. The following definitions and special rules shall apply when determining whether a foreign incorporated entity should be
treated as an inverted domestic corporation.
           (1) Certain Stock Disregarded. For the purpose of treating a foreign incorporated entity as an inverted domestic corporation these
           shall not be taken into account in determining ownership:
                       (i) Stock held by members of the expanded affiliated group which includes the foreign incorporated entity; or
                       (ii) stock of such entity which is sold in a public offering related to the acquisition described in subsection (b)(1) of
                       Section 835 of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395(b)(1).
           (2) Plan Deemed In Certain Cases. If a foreign incorporated entity acquires directly or indirectly substantially all of the
           properties of a domestic corporation or partnership during the 4-year period beginning on the date which is 2 years before the
           ownership requirements of subsection (b)(2) are met, such actions shall be treated as pursuant to a plan.
           (3) Certain Transfers Disregarded. The transfer of properties or liabilities (including by contribution or distribution) shall be
           disregarded if such transfers are part of a plan a principal purpose of which is to avoid the purposes of this section.
(d) Special Rule for Related Partnerships. For purposes of applying section 835(b) of the Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C. 395(b) to the
acquisition of a domestic partnership, except as provided in regulations, all domestic partnerships which are under common control (within the
meaning of section 482 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) shall be treated as a partnership.
(e) Treatment of Certain Rights.
           (1) Certain rights shall be treated as stocks to the extent necessary to reflect the present value of all equitable interests
           incident to the transaction, as follows:
                       (i) warrants;
                       (ii) options;
                       (iii) contracts to acquire stock;
                       (iv) convertible debt instruments; and
                       (v) others similar interests.
           (2) Rights labeled as stocks shall not be treated as stocks whenever it is deemed appropriate to do so to reflect the present value
           of the transaction or to disregard transactions whose recognition would defeat the purpose of Section 835.
(f) Disclosure. The offeror under this solicitation represents that [Check one]: __ it is not a foreign incorporated entity that should be
treated as an inverted domestic corporation pursuant to the criteria of (HSAR) 48 CFR 3009.104-70 through 3009.104-73;
__ it is a foreign incorporated entity that should be treated as an inverted domestic corporation pursuant to the criteria of (HSAR) 48 CFR
3009.104-70 through 3009.104-73, but it has submitted a request for waiver pursuant to 3009.104-74, which has not been denied; or
__ it is a foreign incorporated entity that should be treated as an inverted domestic corporation pursuant to the criteria of (HSAR) 48 CFR
3009.104-70 through 3009.104-73, but it plans to submit a request for waiver pursuant to 3009.104-74.
(g) A copy of the approved waiver, if a waiver has already been granted, or the waiver request, if a waiver has been applied for, shall be
attached to the bid or proposal. (End of provision)



3052.215-70  KEY PERSONNEL OR FACILITIES (DEC 2003)
(a) The personnel or facilities specified below are considered essential to the work being performed under this contract and may, with the
consent of the contracting parties, be changed from time to time during the course of the contract by adding or deleting personnel or
facilities, as appropriate.
(b) Before removing or replacing any of the specified individuals or facilities, the Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer, in
writing, before the change becomes effective. The Contractor shall submit sufficient information to support the proposed action and to enable
the Contracting Officer to evaluate the potential impact of the change on this contract. The Contractor shall not remove or replace personnel or
facilities until the Contracting Officer approves the change. The Key Personnel or Facilities under this Contract: PROJECT MANAGER, ASSISTANT
PROJECT MANAGER, QUALITY CONTROL SPECIALIST, COMPLIANCE REVIEWER Ones.  (End of clause)

3052.222-70 STRIKES OR PICKETING AFFECTING TIMELY COMPLETION OF THE CONTRACT WORK (DEC 2003)
Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Contractor is responsible for delays arising out of labor disputes, including but not limited to
strikes, if such strikes are reasonably avoidable. A delay caused by a strike or by picketing which constitutes an unfair labor practice is not
excusable unless the Contractor takes all reasonable and appropriate action to end such a strike or picketing, such as the filing of a charge
with the National Labor Relations Board, the use of other available Government procedures, and the use of private boards or organizations for
the settlement of disputes. (End of clause)

3052.222-71 STRIKES OR PICKETING AFFECTING ACCESS TO A DHS FACILITY (DEC 2003)
If the Contracting Officer notifies the Contractor in writing that a strike or picketing: (a) is directed at the Contractor or subcontractor or
any employee of either; and (b) impedes or threatens to impede access by any person to a DHS facility where the site of the work is located, the
Contractor shall take all appropriate action to end such strike or picketing, including, if necessary, the filing of a charge of unfair labor
practice with the National Labor Relations Board or the use of other available judicial or administrative remedies. (End of clause)

3052.242-71 DISSEMINATION OF CONTRACT INFORMATION (DEC 2003)
The Contractor shall not publish, permit to be published, or distribute for public consumption, any information, oral or written, concerning the
results or conclusions made pursuant to the performance of this contract, without the prior written consent of the Contracting Officer. An
electronic or printed copy of any material proposed to be published or distributed shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer. (End of
clause)

3052.242-72 CONTRACTING OFFICER'S TECHNICAL REPRESENTATIVE (DEC 2003)
(a) The Contracting Officer may designate Government personnel to act as the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) to perform
functions under the contract such as review or inspection and acceptance of supplies, services, including construction, and other functions of a
technical nature. The Contracting Officer will provide a written notice of such designation to the Contractor within five working days after
contract award or for construction, not less than five working days prior to giving the contractor the notice to proceed. The designation letter
will set forth the authorities and limitations of the COTR under the contract.
(b) The Contracting Officer cannot authorize the COTR or any other representative to sign documents, such as contracts, contract modifications,
etc., that require the signature of the Contracting Officer. (End of clause)
3052.245-70 GOVERNMENT PROPERTY REPORTS (JUN 2006)
(a) The Contractor shall prepare an annual report of Government property in its possession and the possession of its subcontractors.
(b) The report shall be submitted to the Contracting Officer not later than September 15 of each calendar year on DHS Form 0700-5, Contractor
Report of Government Property. (End of clause)

Section J:  List of Documents, Exhibits and other Attachments

Technical Exhibit 1          Condition of Confinement Review Worksheets G-324A - Detention                                        Inspection
Form Worksheet for IGSAs (Over 72 Hours)
Technical Exhibit 2          Condition of Confinement Review Worksheets G-324B - Detention                                        Review
Worksheet for IGSAs (Under 72 Hours)
Technical Exhibit 3          Condition of Confinement Outcome Measures G-324A
Technical Exhibit 4          Condition of Confinement Outcome Measures G-324 B
Technical Exhibit 5          Detention Facility Inspection Form - G-324A for Facilities Used Over                                      72 hours
-
Technical Exhibit 6          Detention Facility Inspection Form - G-324B – for Facilities Used                                    Under 72 hours

Technical Exhibit 7          Map of Field Office Area of Responsibility
Technical Exhibit 8          On-Site Compliance Monitoring Tool
Technical Exhibit 9    Field Office List - Number of Roving Compliance Reviewers per Field Office Area of Responsibility (AOR)
Technical Exhibit 10   Tentative Phase-Out Schedule of National Detention Standards and Phase-In of ICE Performance Based National Detention
                       Standards.
Technical Exhibit 11   Condition of Confinement Review Worksheets G-324B - Detention Review Worksheet for IGSAs (Under 72 Hours) – Performance
                       Based National Detention Standards
Technical Exhibit 12   Condition of Confinement Review Worksheets G-324A - Detention Review Worksheet for IGSAs (Under 72 Hours) – Performance
                       Based National Detention Standards

Attachment 1           Past Performance Questionnaire

Section K:  Representations, Certifications, and Other Statements of Bidders

PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT:

52.203-11 -- Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sep 2007)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision—“Lobbying contact” has the meaning provided at 2 U.S.C. 1602(8). The terms “agency,” “influencing or
attempting to influence,” “officer or employee of an agency,” “person,” “reasonable compensation,” and “regularly employed” are defined in the
FAR clause of this solicitation entitled “Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions” (52.203-12).
(b) Prohibition. The prohibition and exceptions contained in the FAR clause of this solicitation entitled “Limitation on Payments to Influence
Certain Federal Transactions” (52.203-12) are hereby incorporated by reference it his provision.
(c) Certification. The offeror, by signing its offer, hereby certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated
funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of
Congress, an officer or employee of Congress, or an employee of a Member of Congress on its behalf in connection with the awarding of this
contract.
(d) Disclosure. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect
to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide
the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable
compensation were made.
(e) Penalty. Submission of this certification and disclosure is a prerequisite for making or entering into this contract imposed by 31 U.S.C.
1352. Any person who makes an expenditure prohibited under this provision or who fails to file or amend the disclosure required to be filed or
amended by this provision, shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $10,000, for each such failure. (End of Provision)

52.204-8 -- Annual Representations and Certifications (Jan 2006)
(a)
           (1) The North American Industry classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 561210.
           (2) The small business size standard is $32.5M in average annual receipts for the preceding three years.
           (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service
           contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
(b)
           (1) If the clause at 52.204-7, Central Contractor Registration, is included in this solicitation, paragraph (c) of this provision
           applies.
           (2) If the clause at 52.204-7 is not included in this solicitation, and the offeror is currently registered in CCR, and has completed
           the ORCA electronically, the offeror may choose to use paragraph (c) of this provision instead of completing the corresponding
           individual representations and certification in the solicitation. The offeror shall indicate which option applies by checking one of
           the following boxes:
                 [ ] (i) Paragraph (c) applies.
                 [ ] (ii) Paragraph (c) does not apply and the offeror has completed the individual representations and certifications in the
                 solicitation.
(c) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the Online Representations and Certifications
Application (ORCA) website at http://orca.bpn.gov . After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of the
offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically have been entered or updated within the last 12 months, are
current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced
for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201); except for the changes
identified below [offeror to insert changes, identifying change by clause number, title, date]. These amended representation(s) and/or
certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer.
|FAR Clause                     |Title                         |Date                          |Change                         |
|                               |                              |                              |                               |
|                               |                              |                              |                               |


           Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations
           and certifications posted on ORCA. (End of Provision)

52.209-5 -- Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (May 2008)
(a)
           (1) The Offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that --
                 (i) The Offeror and/or any of its Principals --
                       (A) Are * are not * presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of
                       contracts by any Federal agency;
                       (B) Have * have not *, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered
                       against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or
                       performing a public (Federal, state, or local) contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes
                       relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction
                       of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; and
                       (C) Are * are not * presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a governmental entity with,
                       commission of any of the offenses enumerated in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(B) of this provision; and
                       (D) Have [ ], have not [ ], within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes
                       in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied.
                            (1) Federal taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply:
                                       (i) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed.
                                       A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the
                                       case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial
                                       appeal rights have been exhausted.
                                       (ii) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to
                                       pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where
                                       enforced collection action is precluded.
                            (2) Examples.
                                       (i) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the
                                       taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it
                                       is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax
                                       liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.
                                       (ii) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the
                                       taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the
                                       IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS
                                       determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest
                                       the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability.
                                       This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court
                                       review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal
                                       rights.
                                       (iii) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is
                                       making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent
                                       because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment.
                                       (iv) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced
                                       collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. 362 (the Bankruptcy Code).
                 (ii) The Offeror has [ ] has not [ ], within a three-year period preceding this offer, had one or more contracts terminated for
                 default by any Federal agency.
           (2) “Principals,” for the purposes of this certification, means officers; directors; owners; partners; and, persons having primary
           management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a subsidiary,
           division, or business segment, and similar positions).
                 This Certification Concerns a Matter Within the Jurisdiction of an Agency of the United States and the Making of a False,
                 Fictitious, or Fraudulent Certification May Render the Maker Subject to Prosecution Under Section 1001, Title 18, United States
                 Code.
(b) The Offeror shall provide immediate written notice to the Contracting Officer if, at any time prior to contract award, the Offeror learns
that its certification was erroneous when submitted or has become erroneous by reason of changed circumstances.
(c) A certification that any of the items in paragraph (a) of this provision exists will not necessarily result in withholding of an award under
this solicitation. However, the certification will be considered in connection with a determination of the Offeror’s responsibility. Failure of
the Offeror to furnish a certification or provide such additional information as requested by the Contracting Officer may render the Offeror
nonresponsible.
(d) Nothing contained in the foregoing shall be construed to require establishment of a system of records in order to render, in good faith, the
certification required by paragraph (a) of this provision. The knowledge and information of an Offeror is not required to exceed that which is
normally possessed by a prudent person in the ordinary course of business dealings.
(e) The certification in paragraph (a) of this provision is a material representation of fact upon which reliance was placed when making award.
If it is later determined that the Offeror knowingly rendered an erroneous certification, in addition to other remedies available to the
Government, the Contracting Officer may terminate the contract resulting from this solicitation for default. (End of Provision)

52.219-1 -- Small Business Program Representations (May 2004)
(a)
      (1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 561210.
           (2) The small business size standard is $32.5M in average annual receipts for the preceding three years.
      (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service
      contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.
(b) Representations.
      (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a small business concern.
      (2) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror
      represents, for general statistical purposes, that it * is, * is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002.
      (3) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror
      represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a women-owned small business concern.
      (4) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror
      represents as part of its offer that it * is, * is not a veteran-owned small business concern.
      (5) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(4) of this provision.] The
      offeror represents as part of its offer that is * is, * is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern.
      (6) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror
      represents, as part of its offer, that –
           (i) It * is, * is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone
           Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material change in ownership and control, principal
           office, or HUBZone employee percentage has occurred since it was certified by the Small Business Administration in accordance with 13
           CFR part 126; and
           (ii) It * is, * is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph
           (b)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the joint
           venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the HUBZone small business concern or concerns that are participating in the
           joint venture: ___________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed
           copy of the HUBZone representation.
(c) Definitions. As used in this provision--
      “Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern”—
           (1) Means a small business concern—
                 (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned
                 business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
                 (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the
                 case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran.
           (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined
           in 38 U.S.C. 101(16).
      “Small business concern,” means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of
      operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the
      size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision.
      “Veteran-owned small business concern” means a small business concern—
           (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any
           publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and
           (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans.
      “Women-owned small business concern,” means a small business concern --
      (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the
      stock of which is owned by one or more women; and
      (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women.
(d) Notice.
      (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this
      solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished.
      (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm’s status as a small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, or women-owned
      small business concern in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8(a),
      8(d), 9, or 15 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition
      of program eligibility, shall --
           (i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both;
           (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and
           (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of Provision)

52.222-22 -- Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports (Feb 1999)
The offeror represents that --
(a) It * has, * has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation;
(b) It * has, * has not filed all required compliance reports; and
(c) Representations indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained before subcontract
awards. (End of Provision)

52.222-25 -- Affirmative Action Compliance (Apr 1984)
The offeror represents that --
(a) It * has developed and has on file, * has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs
required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2); or
(b) It * has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the
Secretary of Labor.  (End of Provision)

52.222-38 -- Compliance With Veterans’ Employment Reporting Requirements (Dec 2001)
By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that, if it is subject to the reporting requirements of 38 U.S.C. 4212(d) (i.e., if it has
any contract containing Federal Acquisition Regulation clause 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Special Disabled Veterans, Veterans of the
Vietnam Era, and Other Eligible Veterans), it has submitted the most recent VETS-100 Report required by that clause.  (End of provision)

52.225-20 – Prohibition on Conducting Restricted Business Operations in Sudan--Certification (Jun 2008)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision—
“Business operations” means engaging in commerce in any form, including by acquiring, developing, maintaining, owning, selling, possessing,
leasing, or operating equipment, facilities, personnel, products, services, personal property, real property, or any other apparatus of business
or commerce.
“Marginalized populations of Sudan” means—
      (1) Adversely affected groups in regions authorized to receive assistance under section 8(c) of the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act
      (Pub. L. 109-344) (50 U.S.C. 1701 note); and
      (2) Marginalized areas in Northern Sudan described in section 4(9) of such Act.
“Person” means—
      (1) A Natural person, corporation, company, business association, partnership, society, trust, any other nongovernmental entity,
      organization, or group;
      (2) Any governmental entity or instrumentality of a government, including a multilateral development institution (as defined in section
      1701(c)(3) of the International Financial Institutions Act (22 U.S.C. 262r(c)(3)); and
      (3) Any successor, subunit, parent company or subsidiary of any entity described in paragraphs (1) or (2) of this definition.
“Restricted business operations” means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-
related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007
(Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person conducting the business can demonstrate—
      (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan;
      (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are
      expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization ;
      (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan;
      (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization;
      (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or
      (6) Have been voluntarily suspend.
(b) Certification. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that it does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan.  (End
of provision)

Section L:  Instructions, Conditions, and Notices to Bidders, Offerors, or Quoters

INSTRUCTIONS TO OFFERORS

SPECIAL NOTES TO OFFERORS:
1) The awardee of this procurement shall not be eligible for award on any other DHS/ICE procurement(s) for the annual inspection of or incident
compliance investigation/inspection of or any other related procurement with regard to ICE National Detention Standards or ICE Performance Based
National Detention Standards compliance solicitations as a prime or subcontractor at any tier for the term of the resultant award to include all
option periods.

2) No alternate proposals will be accepted.  No proposal costs shall be reimbursed.  The Government reserves the right to award on initial
offers without discussion if considered to be in the best interest of the Government.  All offerors should submit their best cost and technical
proposal in their initial submission”.

3) All documents to include amendments, if issued, will be posted on Federal Business Opportunities website (www.fbo.gov).  No hard copies or
emailed copies of the solicitation, or amendments if issued, will be provided.  Offerors are encouraged to continue to monitor the FedBizOpps
website for amendments or change notices.

4) The Government intends to award a single award contract that is dated up to sixty (60) days in advance of the first date of the base year
period of performance.  This is to provide sufficient time for the awardee to process contractor personnel through the background and security
screening process to obtain the required Entry On Duty (EOD) determination.  The period between contract award and the beginning date of the
base period shall be at no cost to the Government.  Contractor personnel will be able to start work no sooner than the base period start date or
the date of the security clearance is granted (EOD), whichever is later.


The RFP due date is JANUARY 16, 2009


A.  PROPOSAL SUBMISSION.  The offeror’s proposal shall be submitted via the FedBizOpps only.  No hard copy or facsimile proposal packages will
be accepted.  The offeror’s proposal shall consist of four (4) separate volumes with one (1) copies of each volume.  The Volumes are I-
Technical, II Past Performance, III-Price, IV-Solicitation, Offer and Award Documents and Certifications/Representations.  The intent of this
standardized format is not to limit creativity.  Creativity is permitted within the parameters below to allow the Government a more fair and
easy assessment of offers.

Questions regarding this solicitation must be submitted in writing only to Ms. Nancy Maples-Remley via email at: nancy.maples-remley@dhs.gov or
via facsimile to 202-732-7446.  Questions must be submitted not later than 4:00 pm, EST, DECEMBER 30, 2008.  Responses to questions submitted,
if/as appropriate, will be responded to via an amendment to the solicitation only, which shall be posted to FedBizOpps, www.fbo.gov .  If an
amendment is issued, offerors shall submit a copy of the amendment, dated and signed with their proposal package.

      a. Format.  The submission shall be clearly indexed and logically assembled.  Each volume shall be appropriately numbered and clearly
      identified with the date and solicitation number in the header and/or footer and shall begin at the top of each page.  NOTE: Please submit
      a cover letter with your proposal addressed to Ms. Nancy Maples-Remley with your company’s contact information.  A Table of Contents should
      be created using the Table of Contents feature in MS Word.  Each paragraph shall be separated by at least one blank line.  A standard, 12-
      point minimum font size applies to all volumes.  New Times Roman fonts are required.   Double sided pages shall count as two pages.


      b.  File Packaging.  Written proposals shall be submitted in four (4) volumes, as outlined above, Proposal Submission.  Offerors shall
      attach a cover sheet to the outer cover of each volume, which clearly identifies each volume-by-volume number, volume name, and copy number
      (i.e., Volume I, Technical, copy 1 of 4), Request for Proposal (RFP) number, and date of submission.  Use tab indexing to identify all
      sections within a particular proposal volume.  Do not include writing on the tab index page other than that required to identify the
      particular section.  In addition to the written proposals, the offeror is required to provide a copy via email to nancy.maples-
      remley@dhs.gov, of the proposal price volume in Microsoft Excel, with viewable calculations.  Those pages that exceed the page counts for
      each volume or attachment will not be evaluated.  If there are more than forty-five (45) lines of text on any page, the sum of the
      additional lines will be removed from back to front of the particular volume or attachment and will not be evaluated.  For purposes of
      determining the timeliness of submission of proposals, only the hard copy submission shall be considered in making any proposal receipt
      timeliness determination. In the event of any inconsistency between the hard copy pricing tables and the electronic submission, the hard
      copy pricing tables shall take precedence.


      c.  Page Count.  The page count is as follows:

|Proposal Part                                                        |Page Count                                                     |
|Volume I – Technical                                                 |NTE 40 pages, including the Quality Control Plan, excluding    |
|                                                                     |resumes, covers, title pages, executive summaries, table of    |
|                                                                     |contents.                                                      |
|Volume II – Past Performance                                         |NTE 8 pages, excluding covers, title pages, executive          |
|                                                                     |summaries, and table of contents.                              |
|Volume III – Price                                                   |No Page Limitation                                             |
|Volume IV– Solicitation, Offer and Award Documents,                  |NTE 10 pages, excluding covers, title pages, executive         |
|Certifications/Representations other than ORCA.                      |summaries, and table of contents.                              |


B.  CONTENT REQUIREMENTS  All information shall be confined to the appropriate volume.  The offeror shall confine submissions to essential
matters, sufficient to define the proposal details, in a concise manner, to permit a complete and accurate evaluation of each proposal.  Each
volume of the proposal shall consist of a Table of Contents, Summary Section and the Narrative discussion.  The Summary Section shall contain a
brief abstract of the volume.  Proprietary information shall be clearly marked.  The following shall be included in the Narrative discussion:




VOLUME I –TECHNICAL APPROACH  The proposal will be evaluated to determine  whether  the  offeror’s  methods  and  approach  have  adequately  and
completely considered, defined, and satisfied  the requirements specified in the solicitation and whether the offeror’s methods and  approach  to
meeting the solicitation requirements provide the Government with a high level  of  confidence  of  successful  completion  within  the  required
schedule.   No pricing information is to be provided in the Technical Proposal.
Sub-factor 1- KEY PERSONNEL and proposed other contractor personnel resumes- The offeror’s proposal shall reflect the experience and
qualifications of all contractor personnel.  The offeror’s proposal shall include resumes for key personnel.  All key personnel resumes must be
accompanied by a separate letter of commitment for each resume signed by the proposed employee and an authorized corporate representative of the
offeror.  Resumes for the key personnel and resumes for other proposed contractor personnel shall be included as an attachment to the Technical
Proposal and shall be no longer than 3 pages each.  The resume attachment will not count towards the 40 page limit on the Technical Proposal.
The Key Personnel or Facilities under this Procurement are: PROJECT MANAGER, ASSISTANT PROJECT MANAGER, QUALITY CONTROL SPECIALIST, and
COMPLIANCE REVIEWER Ones.  Other proposed contractor personnel (not Key Personnel) are Compliance Reviewers Two, Subject Matter Expert
Physician/Registered Nurse/Health Care Administrator, Subject Matter Expert - Food Services, Subject Matter Expert – Safety, Subject Matter
Expert – Security, Administrative Assistant, and Technical Writer/Transcriber.

Subfactor 2 – Proposed Management Plans for:
             a. Contract Management Plan, to include overall approach and Staffing Plan
             b. Quality Control Plan
             c. Training Plan
             d. Transition-in Plan

The Staffing Plan portion of the Contract Management Plan should include the offeror’s plan to recruit and retain qualified personnel.  The
Transition-in Plan should contain a reasonable, realistic approach for assuming full contractual responsibility without disruption or
degradation of performance during the transition period.  The plan shall identify risk, propose appropriate mitigation strategies, proposes a
realistic, achievable and affordable transition schedule and staffing plan.  The plan shall ensure sufficient resources are on hand and
available to begin work under this requirement.  It shall include a statement that the personnel proposed are available, trained, and qualified
to perform the work under this effort.  The plan shall provide phase-in support for up to but not greater than 90 days from date of award to the
selected contractor if the incumbent contractor is not selected herein.  Quality Control Plan - Offeror shall submit a Quality Control Plan
(QCP) that details how it will monitor, inspect, and correct deficiencies for the requirements of the SOW.  The Government shall incorporate the
approved QCP in the contract that will result from this solicitation.  The QCP will no longer be considered proprietary and will be considered
releasable under FOIA.

VOLUME II-  PAST PERFORMANCE: The Government will evaluate past performance of three (3) but not more than five (5) current or previous
contracts for current relevancy (3 years) based on how well the contractor performed on projects of similar dollar value, scope, and complexity.
 Offerors are advised that the Government may use past performance information obtained from centralized past performance databases and sources
other than those identified by the offeror and the information obtained may be used for both the responsibility determination and the best value
decision.  The absence of past performance data will be rated neither favorably nor unfavorably.  Contracts listed may include those entered
into with Government agencies or private sectors.  For contractors with no relevant corporate past performance, the Government may take into
account information regarding the past performance of predecessor companies, key personnel with relevant past performance, or subcontractors
that will perform key aspects of the requirement.  The Government will evaluate the Past Performance Elements specified in the Past Performance
Questionnaire, Attachment 1.
This volume shall be organized into the following sections:

(1) Section 1 – Contract Descriptions.  This section shall include the following information in the following format:


           (a) Contractor/Subcontractor place of performance and DUNS Number. If the work was performed as a subcontractor, also provide the
           name of the prime contractor and Point of Contact (POC) within the prime contractor organization (name, and current address, e-mail
           address, and telephone and fax numbers).

           (b) Government contracting activity, and current address, Procuring Contracting Officer's name, e-mail address, telephone and fax
           numbers.

           (c) Government’s technical representative/COR, and current e-mail address, telephone and fax numbers.

           (d) Government contract administration activity and the Administrative Contracting Officer's name, and current e-mail address,
           telephone and fax numbers.

           (e) Government contract administration activity's Pre-Award Monitor's name, and current e-mail address, telephone and fax numbers.

           (f) Contract Number and, in the case of Indefinite Delivery type contracts, GSA contracts, and Blanket Purchase Agreements, include
           Delivery Order Numbers also.

           (g) Contract Type (specific type such as Fixed Price (FP), Cost Reimbursement (CR), Time & Materials (T&M), etc.)  In the case of
           Indefinite Delivery contracts, indicate specific type (Requirements, Definite Quantity, and Indefinite Quantity) and secondary
           contract type (FP, CR, T&M, etc)).

            (h) Awarded price.


           (i) Final or projected final price.


           (j) Original delivery schedule, including dates of start and completion of work.


           (k) Final or projected final delivery schedule, including dates of start and completion of work.

(2) Section 2 - Performance.  Offerors shall provide a specific narrative explanation of each contract listed in Section 1 describing the
objectives achieved and detailing how the effort is relevant to the requirements of this solicitation.

           a) For any contracts that did not/do not meet original schedule or technical performance requirements, provide a brief explanation of
              the reason(s) for the shortcomings and any corrective action(s) taken to avoid recurrence.  The offerors shall list each time the
              delivery schedule was revised and provide an explanation of why the revision was necessary.  All Requests for Deviation and
              Requests for Waiver shall be addressed with respect to causes and corrective actions.  The offerors shall also provide a copy of
              any Cure Notices or Show Cause Letters received on each contract listed and a description of any corrective action implemented by
              the offeror or proposed subcontractor. The offerors shall indicate if any of the contracts listed were terminated and the type and
              reasons for the termination.


(3) Section 3 – New Corporate Entities.  New corporate entities may submit data on prior contracts involving its officers and employees.
However, in addition to the other requirements in this section, the offeror shall discuss in detail the role performed by such persons in the
prior contracts cited.  Information should be included in the files described in the sections above.

(4) Past Performance Questionnaire. The offeror shall complete Part I of the Past Performance Questionnaire and e-mail the questionnaire to the
Government and private sector point-of-contact (POC) responsible for the past/current contract reference.  The POC's shall be instructed to
electronically complete Part II of the questionnaire and e-mail the entire questionnaire to Nancy.Maples-Remley@dhs.gov not later than JANUARY
16, 2009 at 12:00 pm, EST.  The Past Performance Questionnaire will not be a part of the resultant contract.

VOLUME III– PRICE.  The offeror shall complete the Schedule of Supplies/Services page(s) of the Standard Form (SF) 33 of the solicitation with
pricing for the base and each option period for each CLIN.  The offeror’s price proposal should include a breakout of the labor categories and
the fully loaded hourly labor rates for each labor category.  Hourly rates shall be rounded to the nearest whole cent.  “Fully loaded labor
rates” are defined as direct labor hours at specified fixed hourly rates that include wages, burden, overhead, general and administrative
expenses and profit.  The offeror’s price proposal shall be mapped to the labor categories and fixed price CLINs.

The sub contract line items (SLINs) for increased quantities (00011000a 10011000a, 20011000a, 30011000a, and 40011000a) shall be priced by the
offeror and will be evaluated as part of the price proposal evaluation.  However, offerors should note that these SLINs shall not be funded
unless the SLIN is exercised.

Offerors shall use the following notational amounts for ODC-Travel:
Base Period - $2,164,320.00, 1st Option – $2,246,564.00 2nd Option Period - $2,331,934.00, 3rd Option Period - $2,420,547.00, 4th Option Period
- $2,512,528.00.  “The estimated travel ODC cost line items are provided for purposes of establishing a Not-to-Exceed (NTE) line item to provide
reimbursement for actual travel ODC expenses during a contract year.  The estimated amount is INCLUSIVE of any proposed multiplier (handling
fee) proposed by the offeror. The offeror’s attention is directed to the "Limitation of Cost" and those clauses applicability to these line
items.
Although overtime is not authorized, offerors shall provide a separate appendix or attachment section within their cost/price quotation
describing their corporate policy on overtime and providing prospective overtime rates (if applicable) for all labor categories for each year of
the period of performance. Overtime rates (if applicable) will not be evaluated as part of the cost/price evaluation, however, the corporate
policy and labor category overtime rates identified will be considered the rates applicable in the event overtime is authorized at any time
during the performance period.  Overtime requirements and authorization will be solely at the discretion of the Contracting Officer.
The offeror shall include a spreadsheet in Microsoft Excel in the price volume in sufficient detail to permit evaluation of the proposed prices.

In accordance with FAR 52.222-46, Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees, offerors are required to submit for evaluation a total
compensation plan setting forth proposed salaries and fringe benefits for professional employees working on the contract. Supporting information
will include data, such as recognized national and regional compensation surveys and studies of professional, public and private organizations,
used in establishing the total compensation structure. Plans indicating unrealistically low professional employee’s compensation may be assessed
adversely as one of the factors considered in making an award.

The offeror should include sufficient detail in their price proposal to permit evaluation of the proposed prices.

VOLUME IV - SOLICITATION, OFFER AND AWARD DOCUMENTS AND CERTIFICATIONS/REPRESENTATIONS.   In accordance with FAR 4.1201 Representations and
Certifications and FAR 4.1201 - Policy. (a) Prospective contractors shall complete electronic annual representations and certifications at
http://orca.bpn.gov in conjunction with the required registration in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database (see FAR 4.1102).  Each
offeror shall include a dated and signed statement affirming current CCR registration and ORCA registration.  Each offeror shall complete (fill-
in, date and signatures) the solicitation sections indicated in Section K of the solicitation package and the certifications required by HSAR
3052.209-70 - PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTS WITH CORPORATE EXPATRIATES (JUN 2006).  An authorized official of the firm shall sign the SF 33 and all
certifications.


PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES INCLUDED BY REFERENCE:

52.222-24 -- Preaward On-Site Equal Opportunity Compliance Evaluation (Feb 1999)
52.237-10  - Identification of Uncompensated Overtime (Oct 1997)

PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT:

52.215-1 -- Instructions to Offerors -- Competitive Acquisition (Jan 2004)
(a) Definitions. As used in this provision --
“Discussions” are negotiations that occur after establishment of the competitive range that may, at the Contracting Officer’s discretion, result
in the offeror being allowed to revise its proposal.”
“In writing,” “writing,” or “written” means any worded or numbered expression which can be read, reproduced, and later communicated, and
includes electronically transmitted and stored information.
“Proposal modification” is a change made to a proposal before the solicitation’s closing date and time, or made in response to an amendment, or
made to correct a mistake at any time before award.
“Proposal revision” is a change to a proposal made after the solicitation closing date, at the request of or as allowed by a Contracting Officer
as the result of negotiations.
“Time,” if stated as a number of days, is calculated using calendar days, unless otherwise specified, and will include Saturdays, Sundays, and
legal holidays. However, if the last day falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holiday, then the period shall include the next working day.
(b) Amendments to solicitations. If this solicitation is amended, all terms and conditions that are not amended remain unchanged. Offerors shall
acknowledge receipt of any amendment to this solicitation by the date and time specified in the amendment(s).
(c) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.
      (1) Unless other methods (e.g., electronic commerce or facsimile) are permitted in the solicitation, proposals and modifications to
      proposals shall be submitted in paper media in sealed envelopes or packages
           (i) addressed to the office specified in the solicitation, and
           (ii) showing the time and date specified for receipt, the solicitation number, and the name and address of the offeror. Offerors
           using commercial carriers should ensure that the proposal is marked on the outermost wrapper with the information in paragraphs
           (c)(1)(i) and (c)(1)(ii) of this provision.
      (2) The first page of the proposal must show --
           (i) The solicitation number;
           (ii) The name, address, and telephone and facsimile numbers of the offeror (and electronic address if available);
           (iii) A statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation and
           agreement to furnish any or all items upon which prices are offered at the price set opposite each item;
           (iv) Names, titles, and telephone and facsimile numbers (and electronic addresses if available) of persons authorized to negotiate on
           the offeror’s behalf with the Government in connection with this solicitation; and
           (v) Name, title, and signature of person authorized to sign the proposal. Proposals signed by an agent shall be accompanied by
           evidence of that agent’s authority, unless that evidence has been previously furnished to the issuing office.
      (3) Submission, modification, revision, and withdrawal of proposals.
           (i) Offerors are responsible for submitting proposals, and any modification, or revisions, so as to reach the Government office
           designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for
           receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that proposal or revision is due.
           (ii)
                 (A) Any proposal, modification, or revision received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact
                 time specified for receipt of offers is “late” and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the
                 Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and --
                       (1) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the
                       initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date
                       specified for receipt of proposals; or
                       (2) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt
                       of offers and was under the Government’s control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or
                       (3) It is the only proposal received.
                 (B) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful proposal that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will
                 be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted.
           (iii) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that
           installation on the proposal wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or
           statements of Government personnel.
           (iv) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that proposals cannot be received at the office
           designated for receipt of proposals by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude
           amendment of the solicitation, the time specified for receipt of proposals will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day
           specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume.
           (v) Proposals may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before award. Oral proposals in response to oral solicitations
           may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile proposals, proposals may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any
           time before award, subject to the conditions specified in the provision at 52.215-5, Facsimile Proposals. Proposals may be withdrawn
           in person by an offeror or an authorized representative, if the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the
           person signs a receipt for the proposal before award.
      (4) Unless otherwise specified in the solicitation, the offeror may propose to provide any item or combination of items.
      (5) Offerors shall submit proposals in response to this solicitation in English, unless otherwise permitted by the solicitation, and in
      U.S. dollars, unless the provision at FAR 52.225-17, Evaluation of Foreign Currency Offers, is included in the solicitation.
      (6) Offerors may submit modifications to their proposals at any time before the solicitation closing date and time, and may submit
      modifications in response to an amendment, or to correct a mistake at any time before award.
      (7) Offerors may submit revised proposals only if requested or allowed by the Contracting Officer.
      (8) Proposals may be withdrawn at any time before award. Withdrawals are effective upon receipt of notice by the Contracting Officer.
(d) Offer expiration date. Proposals in response to this solicitation will be valid for the number of days specified on the solicitation cover
sheet (unless a different period is proposed by the offeror).
(e) Restriction on disclosure and use of data. Offerors that include in their proposals data that they do not want disclosed to the public for
any purpose, or used by the Government except for evaluation purposes, shall --
      (1) Mark the title page with the following legend:
           This proposal includes data that shall not be disclosed outside the Government and shall not be duplicated, used, or disclosed -- in
           whole or in part -- for any purpose other than to evaluate this proposal. If, however, a contract is awarded to this offeror as a
           result of -- or in connection with -- the submission of this data, the Government shall have the right to duplicate, use, or disclose
           the data to the extent provided in the resulting contract. This restriction does not limit the Government’s right to use information
           contained in this data if it is obtained from another source without restriction. The data subject to this restriction are contained
           in sheets [insert numbers or other identification of sheets]; and
      (2) Mark each sheet of data it wishes to restrict with the following legend:
           Use or disclosure of data contained on this sheet is subject to the restriction on the title page of this proposal.
(f) Contract award.
      (1) The Government intends to award a contract or contracts resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror(s) whose
      proposal(s) represents the best value after evaluation in accordance with the factors and subfactors in the solicitation.
      (2) The Government may reject any or all proposals if such action is in the Government’s interest.
      (3) The Government may waive informalities and minor irregularities in proposals received.
      (4) The Government intends to evaluate proposals and award a contract without discussions with offerors (except clarifications as described
      in FAR 15.306(a)). Therefore, the offeror’s initial proposal should contain the offeror’s best terms from a cost or price and technical
      standpoint. The Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if the Contracting Officer later determines them to be necessary. If
      the Contracting Officer determines that the number of proposals that would otherwise be in the competitive range exceeds the number at
      which an efficient competition can be conducted, the Contracting Officer may limit the number of proposals in the competitive range to the
      greatest number that will permit an efficient competition among the most highly rated proposals.
      (5) The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit cost or
      prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the proposal.
      (6) The Government reserves the right to make multiple awards if, after considering the additional administrative costs, it is in the
      Government’s best interest to do so.
      (7) Exchanges with offerors after receipt of a proposal do not constitute a rejection or counteroffer by the Government.
      (8) The Government may determine that a proposal is unacceptable if the prices proposed are materially unbalanced between line items or
      subline items. Unbalanced pricing exists when, despite an acceptable total evaluated price, the price of one or more contract line items is
      significantly overstated or understated as indicated by the application of cost or price analysis techniques. A proposal may be rejected if
      the Contracting Officer determines that the lack of balance poses an unacceptable risk to the Government.
      (9) If a cost realism analysis is performed, cost realism may be considered by the source selection authority in evaluating performance or
      schedule risk.
      (10) A written award or acceptance of proposal mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time specified in the
      proposal shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party.
           (11) If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if
           applicable:
           (i) The agency’s evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror’s offer.
           (ii) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance
           information on the debriefed offeror.
           (iii) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection.
           (iv) A summary of the rationale for award.
           (v) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror.
           (vi) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in
           the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency.  (End of Provision)

52.216-1 -- Type of Contract (Apr 1984)
The Government contemplates award of a TIME AND MATERIALS, WITH FIXED PRICE AND LABOR HOUR CLINs and SLINs contract resulting from this
solicitation.  (End of Provision)

52.222-46 -- Evaluation of Compensation for Professional Employees (Feb 1993)
(a) Recompetition of service contracts may in some cases result in lowering the compensation (salaries and fringe benefits) paid or furnished
professional employees. This lowering can be detrimental in obtaining the quality of professional services needed for adequate contract
performance. It is therefore in the Government’s best interest that professional employees, as defined in 29 CFR 541, be properly and fairly
compensated. As part of their proposals, offerors will submit a total compensation plan setting forth salaries and fringe benefits proposed for
the professional employees who will work under the contract. The Government will evaluate the plan to assure that it reflects a sound management
approach and understanding of the contract requirements. This evaluation will include an assessment of the offeror’s ability to provide
uninterrupted high-quality work. The professional compensation proposed will be considered in terms of its impact upon recruiting and retention,
its realism, and its consistency with a total plan for compensation. Supporting information will include data, such as recognized national and
regional compensation surveys and studies of professional, public and private organizations, used in establishing the total compensation
structure.
(b) The compensation levels proposed should reflect a clear understanding of work to be performed and should indicate the capability of the
proposed compensation structure to obtain and keep suitably qualified personnel to meet mission objectives. The salary rates or ranges must take
into account differences in skills, the complexity of various disciplines, and professional job difficulty. Additionally, proposals envisioning
compensation levels lower than those of predecessor contractors for the same work will be evaluated on the basis of maintaining program
continuity, uninterrupted high-quality work, and availability of required competent professional service employees. Offerors are cautioned that
lowered compensation for essentially the same professional work may indicate lack of sound management judgment and lack of understanding of the
requirement.
(c) The Government is concerned with the quality and stability of the work force to be employed on this contract. Professional compensation that
is unrealistically low or not in reasonable relationship to the various job categories, since it may impair the Contractor’s ability to attract
and retain competent professional service employees, may be viewed as evidence of failure to comprehend the complexity of the contract
requirements.
(d) Failure to comply with these provisions may constitute sufficient cause to justify rejection of a proposal. (End of Provision)

52.233-2 -- Service of Protest (Sep 2006)
(a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any
protests that are filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by
obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from: Department of Homeland Security, Immigrations and Customs Enforcement , Office of
Acquisition Management, 801 I Street, NW. Washington, DC  20536 (b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above
within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of Provision)

52.252-1 -- Solicitation Provisions Incorporated by Reference (Feb 1998)
This solicitation incorporates one or more solicitation provisions by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full
text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. The offeror is cautioned that the listed provisions may include
blocks that must be completed by the offeror and submitted with its quotation or offer. In lieu of submitting the full text of those provisions,
the offeror may identify the provision by paragraph identifier and provide the appropriate information with its quotation or offer. Also, the
full text of a solicitation provision may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): http://farsite.hill.af.mil,
http://www.dtic/mil/fars or http://www.arnet.gov/far (End of Provision)


Section M:  Evaluation Factors for Award

A. SOURCE SELECTION PROCESS


This is a best value procurement using trade-offs.  The Government will make an award to the Offeror whose proposal represents the best value to
the Government, price and other factors considered. The factors listed below will be evaluated to determine the proposal with the best value to
the Government.  Offers will be evaluated on the basis of strengths, weaknesses, and risks.  The factors are listed below in descending order of
importance with Factors 1 and 2 being significantly more important than Price.  Technical Evaluation Factor Subfactor 1 is more important than
Subfactor 2.  In Subfactor 2, items A,B, and C are approximately equal and when combined are more important than item D.
All evaluation factors other than cost and price, when combined are significantly more important than cost or price


1).  Technical Evaluation Factor:  As part of this evaluation the Government will evaluate the background and experience of all personnel
identified as key personnel as well as other personnel called for under this evaluation factor.  The Government will specifically evaluate the
proposed Project Manager's background and experience in managing multiple tasks, such as those defined in the statement of work, and the
background and experience in conducting and performing Program Management activities as described in the statement of work.  As part of this
evaluation, the Government will consider the Project Manager's ability to commit to the level of hours proposed and the Offeror's overall
ability to commit qualified staff to support the contract and ensure on-schedule completion of all tasks by the Offeror.  Resumes of proposed
Key Personnel and other contractor personnel shall be evaluated against the labor category educational and/or experience requirements stated in
paragraph 4.6 of the Statement of Work.

          i) Sub Factor 1 – Qualifications of Key Personnel and other staffing.  Key Personnel are designated as the Senior Project Manager,
             Assistant Project Manager, Quality Control Specialist and forty (40) Compliance Reviewers One to be assigned to the forty (40) ICE
             designated facilities for full-time on-site compliance monitoring services.


          (ii)   Sub Factor 2 – Proposed Management Plans for:
             A   Contract Management Plan, to include overall approach and Staffing Plan
             B   Quality Control Plan
             C   Training Plan
             D   Transition-in Plan

2.  Past Performance - The Government will evaluate each Offeror's past performance conducting projects of similar dollar value, scope and
complexity, as proven by the successful management of current and previous contracts of a similar scope, magnitude, and complexity during the
last three (3) years.  In performing this evaluation, the Government will consider the Offeror's past performance information provided by the
Offeror (3 – 5 past performance references) and may consider information obtained from other sources.

If there is no relevant past performance information, past performance will be rated as neutral.


B.  EVALUATION RATING SCHEME

1)  TECHNICAL FACTORS:

Outstanding: Exceeds acceptable performance standards in all or nearly all areas, and exceeds acceptable performance standards by an appreciable
margin in one or more areas.  Provides a wide range of capabilities that are expected to prove beneficial to the government, or a more limited
range that are expected to prove very beneficial to the government.  Has no significant weaknesses; any weaknesses are readily correctable.
Only mild or strictly limited risk is noted.

Good:  Meets all and exceeds some acceptable performance standards. Provides capabilities that are expected to prove beneficial to the
government.  Has no significant weaknesses; any weaknesses are readily correctable.  Some slight risk may be noted in a limited number of areas.

Acceptable:  Generally meets acceptable performance standards, may exceed the acceptable level in a limited number of areas.  May provide a
limited set of capabilities that are expected to prove at least somewhat beneficial to the government.  Any weaknesses are readily correctable.
No deficiencies. Marked risk may be noted in at least one area, or slight risk in a number of areas. Reasonable expectation of successful task
performance/completion.

Marginal:  Fails to meet the level of acceptable performance in one or more areas; however any deficiencies and weaknesses noted are
correctable.  Significant risk may be present in at least one area, or marked risks in a number of areas.

Unacceptable:  Fails to meet the level of acceptable performance in a majority of the areas, and the deficiencies are uncorrectable without a
major revision of the approach.  Significant risk may be present in a number of areas.  Sum of all indicators point toward unsuccessful attempt
at task performance/completion.


2)  PAST PERFORMANCE FACTORS:

Outstanding:  Past performance is almost completely germane in terms of content, scope and complexity and outstanding in quality.  Based on the
Offeror's record of past performance, no issues, concerns or risks are associated with receiving timely delivery of services and contract
performance.  Past performance surveys and the Offeror's experiences indicate that the Offeror is capable of exceeding the requirements of the
task.

Good:  Past performance is applicable in terms of content, scope and complexity and at least good in quality.  The Offeror's record of past
performance indicates there is very little risk associated with receiving quality products, timely delivery of services and contract
performance.  Past performance surveys and the Offeror's experience indicate that the Offeror will meet or exceed the requirements of the task.

Satisfactory:  Past performance is at least somewhat applicable in terms of content, scope and complexity and at least satisfactory in quality.
The Offeror's record of past performance indicates there is some potential risk associated with receiving quality products, timely delivery of
services and contract performance.  Past performance surveys and the Offeror's experience indicate that the Offeror will may have some problems
during performance of the requirements of the task.

Marginal:  Past performance may be limited in applicability in terms of content, scope and complexity and at least marginal in quality.  The
Offeror's record of past performance indicates there are significant risks associated with receiving quality products, timely delivery of
services and contract performance.  Past performance surveys and the Offeror's experience indicate lack of customer satisfaction and the
Offeror's experiences indicate the likelihood of several major problems during performance of the requirements of the task.

Neutral:  No past performance available for evaluation.  Offeror has asserted that it has no directly related or similar relevant past
performance experience.  Proposal receives no merit or demerit for this factor.


3) PRICE

The purpose of price evaluation is to assess the reasonableness of the proposed price, including all options, and to assess the acceptability
of, and correlation to the other business matters of the proposal.  The results of the price evaluation shall also be used as an aid in
determining each offeror's understanding of the requirements of the solicitation.

Price will be evaluated for reasonableness in accordance with one or more price analysis techniques identified in FAR 15.404.  A realism
analysis will be performed.  Any proposal that is unreasonable or materially unbalanced as to price for basic and option items including follow-
on years may be rejected.  An unbalanced proposal is one that incorporates prices that are significantly understated or overstated as indicated
by price analysis techniques.

The evaluated price will be determined by the sum of; multiplying the unit price per contract line item times the estimated quantity.  The
Government will include in the Instructions to Offerors a specified notational amount which offeror’s will be instructed to use for the other
direct charges in each offeror's price proposal.  The Government will conduct a comparative assessment of the prices proposed and in its report
discuss significant differences in Offerors' line item pricing.  Price will not be scored, however it is a factor in the best value
determination.

Each price will be validated by examining the arithmetic accuracy and consistency of the information presented in the proposal.


PROVISIONS AND CLAUSES IN FULL TEXT:

52.217-5 -- Evaluation of Options. (Jul 1990)
Except when it is determined in accordance with FAR 17.206(b) not to be in the Government’s best interests, the Government will evaluate offers
for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. Evaluation of options will not
obligate the Government to exercise the option(s).  (End of Provision)



                                                  Condition of Confinement Inspection Worksheet
                                      (This document must be attached to each G-324A Detention Review Form)
                                     This Form to is be used for Inspections of Facilities Used over 72 Hours
                                                                      [pic]

                                                                      [pic]
                                                  Performance-Based National Detention Standards
                                                 Inspection Worksheet for Over 72 Hour Facilities

      Intergovernmental Service Agreement (IGSA)
      ICE Service Processing Center (SPC)
      ICE Contract Detention Facility (CDF)
|Name                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Address (Street and Name)                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|City, State and Zip Code                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|County                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and Title of Chief Executive Officer (Warden/Superintendent/Facility Administrator)                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and title of Reviewer-In-Charge                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Date[s] of Review                                                                                                                          |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Type of Review                                                                                                                             |
|Headquarters  Operational Special Assessment Other                                                                                         |



Introduction and Overview to the G324A Over 72hour Facility Detention Inspection Worksheets

What is “Performance-Based”?

Unlike “policy and procedures” that focus solely on what is to be done, performance-based policy starts with a focus on the results or outcomes
the required procedures are expected to accomplish.  Each National Detention Standard has been revised to produce Expected Outcomes that are
clearly stated. Each standard reflects the overall mission and purpose of the agency and contributes to the goal that has been articulated.

Expected Practices found in the National Detention Standards (NDS) represent what is to be done to accomplish the Expected Outcomes that will
meet the Purpose and Scope of the Detention Standard.

Outcome Measures (key indicators) are what is looked at to know whether (or how well) what a facility is accomplishing contributes to the
outcomes expected.

The original 38 NDS have been revised into 41 performance-based standards. During the development four new standards were added to include: News
Media, Searches of Detainees, Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention and Staff Training.  The two standards on Special Management
Units were condensed into one standard.  The new performance-based standards have incorporated American Correctional Association (ACA) Adult
Local Detention Facility standards, which are the industry benchmark.

Worksheet Overview

There are two sets of Detention Review Worksheets that are used to assess compliance with the National Detention Standards (NDS). Both sets of
these worksheets are derived from the policy and procedures set forth in the NDS. The G324A is for use with the facilities that house detainees
for over 72 hours, while the G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees for under 72 hours.

The G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees under 72 hours and it does not contain as many requirements as the G324A on the
following NDS: Correspondence and Other Mail, Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies, Law Libraries and Legal Material, Legal Rights Group
Presentations, Marriage Requests, Recreation, and Voluntary Work Program. These standards were not included in the prior version of the G324B
due to the short term nature of the detention in facilities that are used for 72 hours or less. These sections are now included in the G324B but
only to the extent that facilities seek applicability and are not mandated by ICE. For example, voluntary work programs are not required, but if
detainees work, compliance with the NDS is required.

Mandatory components in several of the standards have been indicated in the worksheets. Mandatory items are those which must be met in order for
the facility to receive a Meets Standards rating for that standard. These mandatory components typically represent life safety issues.  A Does
Not Meet Standards on one of these components is very serious.  Failing to meet one of the mandatory components means that the overall facility
review rating will be Does Not Meet Standards.
The Outcome Measures Worksheet section is completely new for the performance-based NDS. The Outcome Measures  Worksheets  will  be  completed  by
facility staff prior to arrival of the review team. Ideally, this information will be maintained on a continuous basis by the  facility  as  part
of a key indicators database to provide a perpetual record for monitoring  facility  performance.  The  Reviewer  in  Charge  (RIC)  will  review
facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and trends.



Worksheet Completion

Reviewers are required to complete each item of each section of the G324A and G324B Detention Review Worksheets.  Worksheets  are  in  a  uniform
format with 5 columns  with NDS purpose and scope cited at the top of the worksheet.  Column 1 contains the NDS  standard  assessment  component.
Columns 2-4 are provided for the ratings assigned to each component that is assessed. While there is a column titled N/A or not  applicable,  the
N/A rating should be used rarely and only when applicable. The remarks section is provided for reviewers to include details on each  rating  that
may raise a question such as the “Does Not Meet Standard” or “N/A” ratings.

A Remarks section is also provided at the end of the outcome measures section for summary comments and analysis of  outcome  measures  data.  The
information included in the worksheet components remarks sections and in the final summary remarks section should be considered for inclusion  in
the reviewer report that summarizes the overall facility review process.



Outcome Measures Completion

The Outcome Measures Worksheets will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the  review  team.  Ideally,  this  information  will  be
maintained on a continuous basis by the facility as part of a key indicators database to provide  a  perpetual  record  for  monitoring  facility
performance.  Data should be verified as accurate by the facility before including it in the  database.  Outcome  measure  data  is  intended  to
assess facility issues related to the NDS, so care should be taken to focus on ICE related issues. For example when computing the  average  daily
population (ADP), assess and provide information on the ICE population.

The RIC will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to  describe  facility  performance  and  trends.  In  a  few
instances outcome measures are not provided for some the NDS because after careful consideration of the standard the assessment process has  been
determined to be more process oriented in nature.











                                                                Table of Contents


PART 1      SAFETY
      1     Emergency Plans
      2     Environmental Health and Safety
      3     Transportation (By Land)

PART 2      SECURITY
      4     Admission and Release
      5     Classification System
      6     Contraband
      7     Facility Security and Control
      8     Funds and Personal Property
      9     Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
      10    Key and Lock Control
      11    Population Counts
      12    Post Orders
      13    Searches of Detainees
      14    Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
      15    Special Management Units
      16    Staff-Detainee Communication
      17    Tool Control
      18    Use of Force and Restraints

PART 3      ORDER
      19    Disciplinary System

PART 4      CARE
      20    Food Service
      21    Hunger Strikes
      22    Medical Care
      23    Personal Hygiene
      24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
      25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

PART 5      ACTIVITIES
      26    Correspondence and Other Mail
      27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
      28    Marriage Requests
      29    Recreation
      30    Religious Practices
      31    Telephone Access
      32    Visitation
      33    Voluntary Work Program

PART 6      JUSTICE
      34    Detainee Handbook
      35    Grievance System
      36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
      37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

PART 7      ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
      38    Detention Files
      39    News Media Interviews and Tours
      40    Staff Training
      41    Transfer of Detainees
 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section I SAFETY

1      Emergency Plans
2      Environmental Health and Safety
3      Transportation (By Land)

|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively respond to  |
|any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|No Detainee or detainee groups exercise control or authority over other      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are protected from:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal abuse                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal injury                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disease                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Property damage                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Harassment from other detainees                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff is trained to identify signs of detainee unrest.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|What type of training and how often?                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff effectively disseminates information on facility climate, detainee     |        |            |       |                                              |
|attitudes, and moods to the Facility Administrator.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a designated person or persons responsible for emergency plans and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|their implementation.  Sufficient time is allotted to the person or group for|        |            |       |                                              |
|development and implementation of the plans.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each emergency plan is assigned a number and is strictly accounted for.  A   |        |            |       |                                              |
|list identifying the location of each emergency plan is maintained by the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Chief of Security or equivalent.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive training in the emergency plans during their orientation   |        |            |       |                                              |
|training as well as during their annual training.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The General Section of the emergency plans discusses alternate routes to the |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility for staff to use in the event the primary route is impassable.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plans address the following issues:                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Confidentiality                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accountability (copies and storage locations)                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Annual review procedures and schedule                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Revisions                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contingency plans include a comprehensive general section with procedures    |        |            |       |                                              |
|applicable to most emergency situations, including procedures for handling   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees with special needs.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contingency Plans include a procedure for notification of neighbors residing |        |            |       |                                              |
|in close proximity to the facility.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has cooperative contingency plans with applicable:              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Local law enforcement agencies                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|State agencies                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Federal agencies                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts mock emergency exercises with agencies or departments  |        |            |       |                                              |
|with which they share mutual aid agreements and Memoranda of Understandings. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The exercises should test specific emergency plans to assess their           |        |            |       |                                              |
|effectiveness.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive copies of the Facilty Hostage policy and procedures.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff is trained to disregard instructions from hostages, regardless of rank.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Within 24 hours after release, hostages are screened for medical and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|psychological effects.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains a list of translator services in the event one is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|needed during a hostage crisis.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency plans include emergency medical treatment for staff and detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|during and after an incident.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Food Service Department maintains at least 3- days worth of emergency    |        |            |       |                                              |
|meals for staff and detainees.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written plans illustrate locations of shut-off valves and switches for       |        |            |       |                                              |
|utilities (water, gas, electric).                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written plans include a Staff Work Stoppage procedure.  This procedure is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for limited supervisory review.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Written procedures cover:                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Work/Food Strike                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental Hazard                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Transportation System Emergency                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE-wide Lockdown                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff Work Stoppage                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disturbances                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escapes                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bomb Threats                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adverse Weather                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Internal Searches                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Evacuation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Transportation System Plan                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostages (Internal)                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Civil Disturbances                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Emergency Plans specify a procedure for post-emergency debriefings and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|discussions.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors from injury and illness by maintaining high facility standards of           |
|cleanliness and sanitation, safe work practices, and control of hazardous substances and equipment.                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has a system for storing, issuing, and maintaining  |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventories of hazardous materials.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant inventories are maintained for all flammable, toxic, and caustic    |        |            |       |                                              |
|substances used/stored in each area of the facility.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The manufacturer’s Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) file is up-to-date for  |        |            |       |                                              |
|every hazardous substance used.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The files list all storage areas, and include a plant diagram and legend.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDSs and other information in the files are available to personnel      |        |            |       |                                              |
|managing the facility’s safety program.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All personnel using flammable, toxic, and/or caustic substances follow the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|prescribed procedures:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Wear personal protective equipment.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report hazards and spills to the designated official.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDS are readily accessible to staff and detainees in the work areas.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hazardous materials are always issued under proper supervision.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Quantities are limited.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are trained.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff always supervises detainees using these substances.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All "flammable” and “combustible" materials (liquid and aerosol) are stored  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and used according to label recommendations.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Lighting fixtures and electrical equipment are installed in storage rooms and|        |            |       |                                              |
|other hazardous areas and meet the National Electrical Code requirements.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All toxic and caustic materials stored in their original containers in a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|secure area.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Excess flammables, combustibles, and toxic liquids are disposed of properly  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with MSDS.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff directly supervise and account for products with methyl alcohol.  Staff|        |            |       |                                              |
|receive a list of products containing diluted methyl alcohol, for example,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|shoe dye.  All such products are clearly labeled as such.  "Accountability"  |        |            |       |                                              |
|includes issuing such products to detainees in the smallest workable         |        |            |       |                                              |
|quantities.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every employee and detainee using flammable, toxic, or caustic materials     |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives advanced training, in accordance with OSHA standards, in their use, |        |            |       |                                              |
|storage, and disposal.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility complies with the most current edition of applicable|        |            |       |                                              |
|codes, standards, and regulations of the National Fire Protection Association|        |            |       |                                              |
|(NFPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).         |        |            |       |                                              |
|A technically qualified staff member conducts fire and safety inspections.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Safety Office (or officer) maintains files of inspection reports,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|including corrective actions taken.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has an approved fire prevention, control, and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|evacuation plan.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan requires:                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monthly fire inspections.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire protection equipment strategically located throughout the facility.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Public posting of emergency plan with accessible building/room floor plans.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Exit signs and directional arrows.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|An area-specific exit diagram conspicuously posted in the diagrammed area.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire drills are conducted and documented quarterly in all facility locations |        |            |       |                                              |
|including the administrative area.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|A sanitation program covers barbering operations.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The barbershop has the facilities and equipment necessary to meet sanitation |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The sanitation standards are conspicuously posted in the barbershop.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures regulate the handling and disposal of used needles and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|other sharp objects.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All items representing potential safety or security risks are inventoried and|        |            |       |                                              |
|a designated individual checks this inventory weekly.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard cleaning practices include:                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using specified equipment; cleansers; disinfectants and detergents.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|An established schedule of cleaning and follow-up inspections.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Spill kits are readily available.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A licensed medical waste contractor disposes of infectious/bio-hazardous     |        |            |       |                                              |
|waste.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are trained to prevent contact with blood and other body fluids and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|written procedures are followed.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do the methods for handling/disposing of refuse meet all regulatory          |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Licensed/Certified/Trained pest-control professional inspects for rodents, |        |            |       |                                              |
|insects, and vermin.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least monthly.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The pest-control program includes preventive spraying for indigenous insects.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Drinking water and wastewater is routinely tested according to a fixed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|schedule.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency power generators are tested at least every two weeks.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Other emergency systems and equipment receive testing at least quarterly.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Testing is followed-up with timely corrective actions (repairs and           |        |            |       |                                              |
|replacements).                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility appears clean and well maintained.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hazardous material storage rooms meet the security and structural            |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements of the standard.  Storage cabinets meet the physical            |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements specified in the standard.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Health Services Administrator has implemented a program supporting a high|        |            |       |                                              |
|level of environmental sanitation.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Health Services Administrator conducts medical-facility inspections      |        |            |       |                                              |
|daily.  Each inspection includes noting the condition of floors, walls,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|windows, horizontal surfaces, and equipment.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The assigned staff member shall:Conduct special investigations and           |        |            |       |                                              |
|comprehensive surveys of environmental health conditions, and provide        |        |            |       |                                              |
|advisory, consultative, inspection, and training services regarding          |        |            |       |                                              |
|environmental health conditions.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The assigned staff member is responsible for developing and implementing     |        |            |       |                                              |
|policies, procedures, and guidelines for the environmental health program.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|These guidelines are intended to evaluate and eliminate or control as        |        |            |       |                                              |
|necessary, sources of injuries and modes of transmission of agents or vectors|        |            |       |                                              |
|of communicable diseases.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental health and safety conditions shall be maintained at a level    |        |            |       |                                              |
|that meets recognized standards of safety and hygiene, including those from  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the:                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|American Correctional Association,                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Occupational Safety and Health Administration,                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental Protection Agency,                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food and Drug Administration,                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Fire Protection Association's Life Safety Code, and                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Center for Disease Control and Prevention.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard prevents harm to the general public, detainees, and staff by ensuring that vehicles are properly equipped, maintained, and operated|
|and that detainees are transported in a secure, safe and humane manner, under the supervision of trained and experienced staff.                            |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Transportation are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the detainee case.             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers comply with applicable local, state, and federal motor |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle laws and regulations.  Records support this finding of compliance.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every transporting officer required to drive a commercial size vehicle has a |        |            |       |                                              |
|valid Commercial Driver's License (CDL) issued by the state of employment.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervisors maintain records for each vehicle operated.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating annual inspection of vehicles and annual inspection |        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with state statutes, is available for review.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating safety repairs are completed immediately and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicles are not used until they have been repaired and inspected is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for review.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers use a checklist during every vehicle inspection.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers report deficiencies affecting operability.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deficiencies are corrected before the vehicle goes back into service.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Limit driving time to 10 hours in any 15 hour period when transporting       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive only after eight consecutive off-duty hours.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not receive transportation assignments after having been on duty, in any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity, for 15 hours.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive a 50-hour maximum in a given work week; a 70-hour maximum during eight |        |            |       |                                              |
|consecutive days.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|During emergency conditions (including bad weather), officers may drive as   |        |            |       |                                              |
|long as necessary to reach a safe area(exceeding the 10-hour limit.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two officers with valid Commercial Drivers Licenses, (CDL’s) required in any |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle transporting detainees.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|When buses travel in tandem with detainees, there two qualified officers per |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|An unaccompanied driver transports an empty vehicle.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The transporting officer inspects the vehicle before the start of each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detail.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Positive identification of all detainees being transported is confirmed.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are searched immediately prior to boarding the vehicle by staff|        |            |       |                                              |
|controlling the bus or vehicle.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility ensures that the number of detainees transported does not exceed|        |            |       |                                              |
|the vehicle manufacturer’s occupancy level.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|All ICE uniformed officers wear their ICE issued body armor in accordance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the ICE Body Armor policy    when transporting detainees.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew conducts a visual count once all passengers are on board and|        |            |       |                                              |
|seated.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional visual counts are made whenever the vehicle makes a scheduled or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unscheduled stop.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policies and procedures are in place addressing the use of restraining       |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment on transportation vehicles.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers ensure that no one contacts the detainees.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|One officer remains in the vehicle at all times when detainees are present.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meals are provided during long distance transfers.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The meals meet the minimum dietary standards, as identified by dieticians    |        |            |       |                                              |
|utilized by ICE.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew inspects all Food Service meals before accepting delivery   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(food wrapping, portions, quality, quantity, thermos-transport containers,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|etc.).                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before accepting the meals, the vehicle crew raises and resolves questions,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|concerns, or discrepancies with the Food Service representative.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Basins, latrines, and drinking-water, containers, dispensers are cleaned and |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanitized on a fixed schedule.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicles have:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two-way radios.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cellular telephones.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment boxes stocked in accordance with the Use of Force Standard.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment appropriate and necessary for transporting detainees with physical |        |            |       |                                              |
|disabilities.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicles are clean and sanitary at all times.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal property of a detainee transferring to another facility:            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inventoried.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inspected.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accompanies the detainee.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following contingencies are included in the written procedures for       |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle crews:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attack                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escape                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostage-taking                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee sickness                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee death                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle fire                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Riot                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Traffic accident                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Mechanical problems                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Natural disasters                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Severe weather                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Passenger list is not exclusively men or   women or minors                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section II SECURITY
4      Admission and Release
5       Classification System
6       Contraband
7       Facility Security and Control
8       Funds and Personal Property
9       Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
10    Key and Lock Control
11     Population Counts
12     Post Orders
13     Searches of Detainees
14     Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
15     Special Management Units
16     Staff-Detainee Communication
17     Tool Control
18     Use of Force and Restraints


|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors by ensuring secure and orderly operations when detainees are |
|admitted to or released from a facility.                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Admission processing includes an orientation of the facility.  The           |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation includes; unacceptable activities and behavior, and corresponding|        |            |       |                                              |
|sanctions. How to contact ICE. The availability of pro-bono legal services,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and how to pursue such services.  Schedule of programs, services, daily      |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities, including visitation, telephone usage, mail service, religious   |        |            |       |                                              |
|programs, count procedures, access to and use of the law library and the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|general library; sick-call procedures, and the detainee handbook.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical screenings are performed by medical staff or persons who have        |        |            |       |                                              |
|received specialized training for the purpose of conducting an initial health|        |            |       |                                              |
|screening.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When available, accompanying documentation is used to identify and classify  |        |            |       |                                              |
|each new arrival.  In SPCs and CDFs, new detainees shall remain segregated   |        |            |       |                                              |
|from the general population during the orientation and classification period.|        |            |       |                                              |
|All new arrivals are searched in accordance with the “Detainee Search”       |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard.  An officer of the same sex as the detainee conducts the search and|        |            |       |                                              |
|the search is conducted in an area that affords as much privacy as possible. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are subjected to a strip search only when reasonable suspicion has |        |            |       |                                              |
|been established and not as routine policy.  Non-criminal detainees are never|        |            |       |                                              |
|subjected to a strip search but are patted down unless cause or reasonable   |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspicion has been established.  All strip searches are documented on G-1025,|        |            |       |                                              |
|or equivalent, with proper supervisory approval.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The “Contraband” standard governs all personal property searches.  IGSAs and |        |            |       |                                              |
|CDFs use or have a similar contraband standard.  Staff prepares a complete   |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventory of each detainee’s possessions.  The detainee receives a copy.  All|        |            |       |                                              |
|identity documents are inventoried and given to ICE staff for placement in   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the A-file.  All funds and valuables are safeguarded in accordance with ICE  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes Form I-387 or similar form for CDFs and IGSAs for every lost |        |            |       |                                              |
|or missing property claim.  Facilities forward all I-387 claims to ICE.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are issued appropriate and sufficient clothing and bedding for the |        |            |       |                                              |
|climatic conditions.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All releases are coordinated with ICE.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes paperwork/forms for release as required.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee receives a receipt for personal property secured by the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system to maintain accurate records and documentation for |        |            |       |                                              |
|admission, orientation, and release.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE staff enters all information pertaining to release, removal, or transfer |        |            |       |                                              |
|of all detainees into the Enforce Alien Detention Module (EADM) within 8     |        |            |       |                                              |
|hours of action.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All orientation material shall be provided in English, Spanish, and other    |        |            |       |                                              |
|language(s) as determined by the Field Office Director.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm, and contributes to orderly facility           |
|operations, by requiring a formal classification process for managing and separating detainees that is based on verifiable and documented data.            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|SPC and CDF facilities use the required Objective Classification System.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|IGSAs use an objective classification system or similar system for           |        |            |       |                                              |
|classifying detainees.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility classification system includes:                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classifying detainees upon arrival.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Separating individuals who cannot be classified upon arrival from the general|        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The first-line supervisor or designated classification specialist reviews    |        |            |       |                                              |
|every classification decision.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The intake/processing officer reviews work-folders, A-files, etc., to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|identify and classify each new arrival.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff use only information that is factual, and reliable to determine        |        |            |       |                                              |
|classification assignments.  Opinions and unsubstantiated/ unconfirmed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|reports may be filed but are not used to score detainee classification.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing assignments are based on classification-level.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee's classification-level does not affect his or her recreation      |        |            |       |                                              |
|opportunities.  Detainees recreate with persons of similar classification    |        |            |       |                                              |
|designations.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee work assignments are based upon classification designations.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The classification process includes reassessment/ reclassification.  The     |        |            |       |                                              |
|First Reassessment is to be completed 60 days to 90 days after the initial   |        |            |       |                                              |
|assessment.  Subsequent reassessments are completed at 90 day to 120 day     |        |            |       |                                              |
|intervals.  Special Reassessments are completed within 24 hours.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The classification system includes standard procedures for processing new    |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrivals' appeals.  Only a designated supervisor or classification specialist|        |            |       |                                              |
|has the authority to reduce a classification-level on appeal.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classification appeals are resolved w/in 5 business days. detainees are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|notified of the outcome within 10 business days.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classification designations may be appealed to a higher authority such as the|        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Administrator or equivalent.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Detainee Handbook or equivalent for IGSAs explains the classification    |        |            |       |                                              |
|levels, with the conditions and restrictions applicable to each.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs detainees are assigned color-coded uniforms and IDs to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|reflect classification levels.  In IGSA’s a similar system is utilized for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|each level of classification.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date





























|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by identifying, detecting, controlling, and properly    |
|disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility follows a written procedure for handling contraband.  Staff     |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventories, holds, and reports it when necessary to the proper authority for|        |            |       |                                              |
|action/possible seizure.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contraband that is government property is retained as evidence for potential |        |            |       |                                              |
|disciplinary action or criminal prosecution.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff returns property not needed as evidence to the proper authority.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover the return of such property.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Altered property is destroyed following documentation and using established  |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before confiscating religious items, the Facility Administrator or designated|        |            |       |                                              |
|investigator contacts a religious authority.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures when destroying hard contraband that is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|illegal.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hard contraband that is illegal (under criminal statutes) is retained and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|used for official use, e.g. training purposes.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|If yes, under specific circumstances and using specified written procedures. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hard contraband is secured when not in use.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Soft Contraband is mailed to a third party or stored in accordance with the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention Standard on Funds and Personal Property.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees receive notification of contraband rules and procedures in the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Handbook and notified when property is identified and seized as     |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facilities with Canine Units only use them for contraband detection.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 7. FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, staff, contractors, volunteers, and detainees from harm by ensuring that facility security is maintained   |
|and that events that pose a risk of harm are prevented.                                                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator or assistant administrator and department heads   |        |            |       |                                              |
|visit detainee living quarters and activity areas weekly.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least one male and one female staff are on duty where both males and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|females are housed.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Comprehensive annual staffing analysis determines staffing needs and plans.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Essential posts and positions are filled with qualified personnel.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every Control Center officer receives specialized training.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy restricts staff access to the Control Center.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees do not have access to the Control Center.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communications are centralized in the Control Center.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility security and safety will be monitored and coordinated by a secure,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|well-equipped, and continuously staffed control center.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Control Center maintain employee Personal Data Cards (Form G-74 or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|contract equivalent).                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recall lists include the current home telephone   number of each employee.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Phone numbers are updated as needed.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff make watch calls every half-hour between 6 PM and 6 AM.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Information about routine procedures, emergency situations, and unusual      |        |            |       |                                              |
|incidents will be continually recorded in permanent post logs and shift      |        |            |       |                                              |
|reports.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The front-entrance officer checks the ID of everyone entering or exiting the |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All visits officially recorded in a visitor logbook or electronically        |        |            |       |                                              |
|recorded.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a secure, color-coded visitor pass system.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers monitor all vehicular traffic entering and leaving the facility.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains a log of all incoming and departing vehicles to       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sensitive areas of the facility.  Each entry contains:                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The driver's name                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Company represented                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle contents                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Delivery date and time                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Date and time out                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle license number                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Name of employee responsible for the vehicle during the facility visit       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers thoroughly search each vehicle entering and leaving the facility.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written policy and procedures to prevent the introduction |        |            |       |                                              |
|of contraband into the facility or any of its components.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The front entrance has a sally-port type entrance, with interlocking         |        |            |       |                                              |
|electronic doors or grilles.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s perimeter will ensure that detainees remain within and that   |        |            |       |                                              |
|public access is denied without proper authorization.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern searches of detainee housing units and personal    |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing area searches occur at irregular times.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security officer posts located in or immediately adjacent to detainee living |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas to permit officers to see or hear and respond promptly to emergency    |        |            |       |                                              |
|situations. Personal contact and interaction between staff and detainees is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|required and facilitated.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are post orders for every security officer post.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee movement from one area to another area is controlled by staff.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Living areas are constructed to facilitate continuous staff observation of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|cell or room fronts, dayrooms, and recreation space.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every search of the SMU and other housing units is documented.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The SMU entrance has a sallyport.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|All tools entering SMU will be inspected and inventoried by the SMU officer  |        |            |       |                                              |
|prior to entering the housing unit.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a comprehensive security inspection policy.  The policy     |        |            |       |                                              |
|specifies:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Posts to be inspected                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Required inspection forms                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Frequency of inspections                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guidelines for checking security features                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures for reporting weak spots, in-consistencies, and other areas       |        |            |       |                                              |
|needing improvement                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every officer is required to conduct a security check of his/her assigned    |        |            |       |                                              |
|area.  The results are documented.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation of security inspections is kept on file.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures ensure that recurring problems and a failure to take corrective   |        |            |       |                                              |
|action are reported to the appropriate manager.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools being taken into the secure area of the facility are inspected and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventoried before entering and prior to departure.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Storage and supply rooms; walls, light and plumbing fixtures, accesses, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|drains, etc. undergo frequent, irregular searches.  These searches are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Walls, fences, and exits, including exterior windows, are inspected for      |        |            |       |                                              |
|defects once each shift.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Daily procedures include:                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Perimeter alarm system tests.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Physical checks of the perimeter fence.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documenting the results.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitation areas receive frequent, irregular inspections.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An officer is assigned responsibility for ensuring the security inspection   |        |            |       |                                              |
|process covers all areas of the facility.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Maintenance Supervisor and Chief of Security or equivalent make monthly  |        |            |       |                                              |
|fence checks.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees’ personal property is safeguarded and controlled, specifically including funds, valuables, baggage and other|
|personnel property, and that contraband does not enter a detention facility.                                                                               |
|Standard NA:  (IGSA ONLY) Check this box if all ICE detainee Funds, Valuables and Property are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in       |
|control of the detainee case.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainee funds and valuables are properly separated and stored.  Detainee    |        |            |       |                                              |
|funds and valuables are accessible to designated supervisor(s) only.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees’ large valuables are secured in a location accessible to designated|        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor(s) or processing staff only.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches and itemizes the baggage and personal property of arriving    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees, including funds and valuables, using a personal property inventory|        |            |       |                                              |
|form that meets the ICE standard, in the presence of the detainee unless     |        |            |       |                                              |
|otherwise instructed by the facility administrator.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two officers are present during the processing of detainee funds and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|valuables during admissions processing to the facility.  Both officers verify|        |            |       |                                              |
|funds and valuables.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|For IGSAs and CDFs, Is the facility using a personal property inventory form |        |            |       |                                              |
|that meets the ICE standard?                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff gives the detainee the original inventory form, filing copies in the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s detention file and the personal property container.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff forwards an arriving detainee’s medicine to the medical staff.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches arriving detainees and their personal property for contraband.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Property discrepancies are immediately reported to the Chief of Security or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|equivalent.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures when returning property to detainees.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|CDF/IGSA facility procedures for handling detainee property claims are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|similar to the ICE standard.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility attempts to notify an out-processed detainee that he/she left   |        |            |       |                                              |
|property in the facility.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|By sending written notice to the detainee’s last known address;  via         |        |            |       |                                              |
|certified mail;                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The notice states that the detainee has 30 days in which to claim the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|property, after which it will be considered abandoned.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff obtains a forwarding address from each detainee.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|It is standard procedure for two officers to be present when                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|removing/documenting the removal of funds from a detainee’s possession.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff issues and maintains property receipts (G-589s) in numerical order.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes and distributes the G-589 in accordance with the ICE         |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The processing officer records each G-589 issuance in a G-589 logbook.  The  |        |            |       |                                              |
|record includes the initials and star numbers of receipting officers.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff tags large valuables with both a G-589 and an I-77.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The supervisor verifies the accuracy of every G-589.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The supervisor ensures that:                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee funds are, without exception, deposited into the cash box;          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every property envelope is sealed.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|All sealed property envelopes are placed in the safe.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Large, valuable property is kept in the secured locked area.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff tags every baggage/facility container with an I-77, completed in       |        |            |       |                                              |
|accordance with the ICE standard.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff secures every container used to store property with a tamper-proof     |        |            |       |                                              |
|numbered strap.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A logbook records detainee name, A- number/detainee-number, baggage-check/   |        |            |       |                                              |
|I-77 number, security tie-strap number, property description, date issued and|        |            |       |                                              |
|date returned.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs, th Detention Operations Supervisor, accompanied by a detention staff|        |            |       |                                              |
|member conducts a comprehensive weekly audit.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator has established quarterly audits of baggage and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|non-valuable property as facility policy, the audits occur each quarter and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|audits are verified and entered in the log.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility positively identifies every detainee being released or          |        |            |       |                                              |
|transferred.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff routinely informs supervisors of lost/damaged property claims.  Claims |        |            |       |                                              |
|are properly investigated and missing or damaged property claim reports are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|filed.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every lost/damaged property report completed in accordance with the ICE      |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard on an I-387 (or equivalent).  The Facility Administrator receives a |        |            |       |                                              |
|copy and staff places the original in the detainee’s A-file, retaining a copy|        |            |       |                                              |
|in the detainee’s detention file.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
































|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures the safety, security, and comfort of detainees temporarily held in Hold Rooms pending further processing.  The maximum     |
|aggregate time an individual may be confined in a facility’s Hold Room is 12 hours.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The hold room is situated in a location within the secure perimeter.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms are clean, in good repair, well ventilated, well lit, and all |        |            |       |                                              |
|activating switches located outside the room.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms contain sufficient seating for the number of detainees held.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|No bunks/cots/beds or other related make shift sleeping apparatuses are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|permitted inside hold rooms.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hold room walls and ceilings are escape and tamper resistant.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not held in hold rooms for more than 12 hours.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Male and females detainees are segregated from each other at all times.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided with basic personal hygiene items such as water, soap,|        |            |       |                                              |
|toilet paper, cups for water, feminine hygiene items, diapers and wipes.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the hold room is not equipped  with toilet facilities, an officer is      |        |            |       |                                              |
|posted within visual or audible range to allow detainees access to such on a |        |            |       |                                              |
|regular basis.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are given a pat down search for weapons or contraband before   |        |            |       |                                              |
|being placed in the hold room.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the last detainee has been removed, the hold room is inspected for the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|following:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cleaning.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Evidence of tampering with doors, locks, windows, grills, plumbing or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|electrical fixtures is reported to the shift supervisor for corrective action|        |            |       |                                              |
|or repair.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) There is a written evacuation plan.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a designated officer to remove detainees from the hold rooms in case|        |            |       |                                              |
|of fire and/or building evacuation, or other emergency.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|An appropriate emergency service is called immediately upon a determination  |        |            |       |                                              |
|that a medical emergency exists.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Single occupant hold rooms contain a minimum of 37 square feet (7            |        |            |       |                                              |
|unencumbered square feet for the detainee, 5 square feet for a combination   |        |            |       |                                              |
|lavatory/toilet fixture, and 25 square feet for a wheelchair turn-around     |        |            |       |                                              |
|area).                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|If multiple-occupant hold rooms are used, there is an additional 7           |        |            |       |                                              |
|unencumbered square feet for each additional detainee.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs designed after 1998 the hold rooms are equipped with stainless steel |        |            |       |                                              |
|combination lavatory/toilet fixtures with modesty panels.  They are:         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Compliant with the American Disabilities Act.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Small hold rooms (1 to 14 detainees) have at least one combi-unit.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Large hold rooms (15 to 49 detainees) are provided with at least two         |        |            |       |                                              |
|combi-units.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs designed after 1998 the hold rooms have floor drain(s).              |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs designed after 1998, the door to the hold room swings outward and the|        |            |       |                                              |
|door complies with the specifications outlined in the standard.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Family units, persons of advanced age (over 70), females with children, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unaccompanied juvenile detainees (under the age of 18) are not placed in hold|        |            |       |                                              |
|rooms.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Minors (under 18) are confined apart from adults, except for immediate       |        |            |       |                                              |
|relatives or guardians.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detention facility maintains a detention log (manually or by computer)  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for each detainee placed in a hold cell.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The log includes the required information specified in the standard.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers provide a meal to any detainee detained in a hold room for more than|        |            |       |                                              |
|six hours.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Juveniles, babies and pregnant women have access to snacks, milk or juice.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meal are served to juveniles regardless of time in custody                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any detainee with disabilities, including temporary disabilities, will be    |        |            |       |                                              |
|housed in a manner that provides for his or her safety and security.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The maximum occupancy for the hold room will be posted.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before placing a detainee in a room, an officer shall observe each individual|        |            |       |                                              |
|to screen for obvious mental or physical problems.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff do not permit detainees to smoke in a hold room.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers closely supervise hold rooms through direct supervision, to ensure: |        |            |       |                                              |
|Continuous auditory monitoring, even when the hold room is not in the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|officer’s direct line of sight, and                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visual monitoring at irregular intervals at least every 15 minutes, each time|        |            |       |                                              |
|recording in the detention log, the time and officer's printed name and any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unusual behavior or complaints under "Comments.”                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant surveillance of any detainee exhibiting signs of hostility,         |        |            |       |                                              |
|depression, or similar behaviors.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard maintains facility safety and security by requiring that keys and locks be properly controlled and maintained.                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The security officer[s], or equivalent, has attended an approved locksmith   |        |            |       |                                              |
|training program.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, has responsibly for all administrative  |        |            |       |                                              |
|duties and responsibilities relating to keys, locks etc.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, provides training to all employees in   |        |            |       |                                              |
|key and lock control.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, maintains inventories of all keys, locks|        |            |       |                                              |
|and locking devices.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer follows a preventive maintenance program and maintains  |        |            |       |                                              |
|all preventive maintenance documentation.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility policies and procedures address the issue of compromised keys and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|locks.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, develops policy and procedures to ensure|        |            |       |                                              |
|safe combinations integrity.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only dead bolt or dead lock functions are used in detainee accessible areas. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non-authorized locks (as specified in the Detention Standard) are not used in|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee accessible areas.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility does not use grand master keying systems.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All worn or discarded keys and locks cut up and properly disposed of .       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Padlocks and/or chains are not used on cell doors.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The entrance/exit door locks to detainee living quarters, or areas with an   |        |            |       |                                              |
|occupant load of 50 or more people, conform to                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Occupational Safety and Environmental Health Manual, Chapter 3               |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code 101.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The operational keyboard sufficient to accommodate all the facility key rings|        |            |       |                                              |
|including keys in use is located in a secure area.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures in place to ensure that key rings are:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Identifiable                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Numbers of keys on the ring are cited?                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Keys cannot be removed from issued key rings                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency keys are available for all areas of the facility.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility uses a key accountability system.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Authorization is necessary to issue any restricted key.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Individual gun lockers are provided.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|They are located in an area that permits constant officer observation.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|In an area that does not allow detainee or public access.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a key accountability policy and procedures to ensure key    |        |            |       |                                              |
|accountability.  The keys are physically counted daily.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff members are trained and held responsible for adhering to proper    |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures for the handling of keys.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Issued keys are returned immediately in the event an employee inadvertently  |        |            |       |                                              |
|carries a key ring home.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a key or key ring is lost, misplaced, or not accounted for, the shift   |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor is immediately notified.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not permitted to handle keys assigned to staff.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Locks and locking devices are continually inspected, maintained, and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventoried.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility has the position of Security Officer.  If not, a staff member  |        |            |       |                                              |
|appointed the collateral duties of security officer.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The designated key control officer is the only employee who is authorized to |        |            |       |                                              |
|add or remove a key from a ring.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The splitting of key rings into separate rings is not authorized.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard protects the community from harm and enhances facility security, safety, and good order by requiring that each facility have an    |
|ongoing, effective system of population counts and detainee accountability.                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Staff conduct a formal count at least once each 8 hours (no less than three  |        |            |       |                                              |
|counts per day).  At least one of these counts shall be a face to photo      |        |            |       |                                              |
|count.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Activities cease or are strictly controlled while a formal count is being    |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducted.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a system for counting each detainee, including those who are outside|        |            |       |                                              |
|the housing unit.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Formal counts in all units take place simultaneously.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers do not allow detainee participation in the count.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|A face-to-photo count follows each unsuccessful recount.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers positively identify each detainee before counting him/her as        |        |            |       |                                              |
|present.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover informal and emergency counts.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The control officer (or other designated position) maintains an “out-count”  |        |            |       |                                              |
|record of all detainees temporarily out of the facility.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security officers and any other staff with responsibilities for conducting   |        |            |       |                                              |
|counts are provided adequate initial and periodic training in count          |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures, and that training is documented in each person’s training folder.|        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by ensuring that each officer assigned to a security    |
|post knows the procedures, duties, and responsibilities of that post.                                                                                      |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Every fixed post has a set of Post Orders.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, Post Orders are arranged in the required six-part folder   |        |            |       |                                              |
|format.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each set contains the latest inserts (emergency memoranda, etc.) and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|revisions.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One individual or department is responsible for keeping all Post Orders      |        |            |       |                                              |
|current with revisions that take place between reviews.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Review, updating, and reissuing of Post Orders occurs regularly and at least |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator authorizes all Post Order changes.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator has signed and dated the last page of every       |        |            |       |                                              |
|section.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Post Orders master file is available to all staff.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures keep Post Orders and logbooks secure from detainees at all times. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Copies of the applicable Post Orders are retained at the post only if secure |        |            |       |                                              |
|from detainee access.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervisors ensure that officers understand the Post Orders, regardless of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|whether the assignment is temporary, permanent, or due to an emergency.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, each time an officer receives a different post assignment, |        |            |       |                                              |
|he or she is required to read, sign, and date those Post Orders to indicate  |        |            |       |                                              |
|he or she has read and understands them.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Anyone assigned to an armed post qualifies with the post weapons before      |        |            |       |                                              |
|assuming post duty.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Post Orders for armed posts, and for posts that control access to the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|institution perimeter, clearly state that:                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any staff member who is taken hostage is considered to be under duress, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any order issued by such a person, regardless of his or her position of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|authority, is to be disregarded.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Post Orders for armed posts provide instructions for escape attempts.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Post Orders for housing units track the daily event schedule.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing unit post officers record all detainee activity in a log. The Post   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orders include instructions on maintaining the logbook.                      |        |            |       |                                              |

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date









































|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by detecting, controlling, and properly disposing of    |
|contraband.                                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures governing searches of housing areas, |        |            |       |                                              |
|work areas and of detainees.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures require staff to employ the least intrusive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|method of body search practicable, as indicated by the type of contraband and|        |            |       |                                              |
|the method of suspected introduction or concealment.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures require staff to avoid unnecessary force during|        |            |       |                                              |
|searches and to preserve the dignity of the detainee being searched, to the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|extent practicable.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures require staff to leave a searched housing area,|        |            |       |                                              |
|work area and detainee property in its original order, to the extent         |        |            |       |                                              |
|practicable.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are pat searched and screened by metal detectors routinely to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|control contraband.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Strip Searches are conducted only when there is reasonable belief or         |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspicion that contraband may be concealed on the person, or a good          |        |            |       |                                              |
|opportunity for concealment has occurred, and when properly authorized by a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Body cavity searches are conducted by designated health personnel only when  |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized by the facility administrator (or acting administrator) on the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|basis of reasonable belief or suspicion that contraband may be concealed in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or on the detainee’s person.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|“Dry cells” are used for contraband detection only when there is reasonable  |        |            |       |                                              |
|belief of concealment, with proper authorization, and in accordance with     |        |            |       |                                              |
|required procedures                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contraband that may be evidence in connection with a violation of a criminal |        |            |       |                                              |
|statute is preserved, inventoried, controlled, and stored so as to maintain  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and document the chain of custody.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Canines are not used in the presence of detainees                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 2– 14. SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard requires that facilities that house ICE/DRO detainees affirmatively act to prevent sexual abuse and assaults on detainees, provide |
|prompt and effective intervention and treatment for victims of sexual abuse and assault, and control, discipline, and prosecute the perpetrators of sexual |
|abuse and assault.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|For SPCs and CDFs, the written policy and procedure has been approved by the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Field Office Director.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tracking statistics and reports are readily available for review by the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|inspectors.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained, during orientation and in annual refresher training,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the prevention and intervention areas required by the Detention Standard. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the program in facility orientation and the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee handbook (or equivalent).                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Sexual Assault Awareness Notice is posted on all housing unit bulletin   |        |            |       |                                              |
|boards.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Sexual Assault Awareness Information brochure is available for detainees.|        |            |       |                                              |
|(Required in SPCs and CDFs.)                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are screened upon arrival for “high risk” sexual assaultive and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|sexual victimization potential and housed and counseled accordingly.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All incidents of sexual abuse or assault by a detainee on a detainee have    |        |            |       |                                              |
|been documented in the past year.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|All incidents or allegations of sexual abuse or assault by staff on a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee have been documented in the past year.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is prompt and effective intervention when any detainee is sexually     |        |            |       |                                              |
|abused or assaulted and policy and procedures for required chain-of-command  |        |            |       |                                              |
|reporting.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When there is an alleged sexual assault, staff conduct a thorough            |        |            |       |                                              |
|investigation, gather and maintain evidence, and make referrals to           |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate law enforcement agencies for possible prosecution.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When there is an alleged or proven sexual assault, the required notifications|        |            |       |                                              |
|are promptly made.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Victims of sexual abuse or assault are referred to specialized community     |        |            |       |                                              |
|resources for treatment and gathering of evidence.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|All records associated with claims of sexual abuse or assault are maintained,|        |            |       |                                              |
|and such incidents are specifically logged and tracked by a designated staff |        |            |       |                                              |
|coordinator.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                       |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm by segregating certain detainees from the general  |
|population in Special Management Units (SMUs) with an Administrative Segregation section for detainees segregated for administrative reasons and a         |
|Disciplinary Segregation section for detainees segregated for disciplinary reasons.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures are in place for special management units.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in protective custody status in Administrative          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Segregation only when there is documentation that it is warranted and that no|        |            |       |                                              |
|reasonable alternatives are available.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation only after a finding by the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Institution Disciplinary Panel (IDP) or equivalent that the detainee is      |        |            |       |                                              |
|guilty of a high level prohibited act or rule violation.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Health care personnel are immediately informed when a detainee is|        |            |       |                                              |
|admitted to an SMU to provide assessment and review as indicated by health   |        |            |       |                                              |
|care protocols.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures to control and secure SMU entrances, |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband, tools, and food carts, in accordance with the Detention Standard |        |            |       |                                              |
|on Facility Security and Control.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The number of detainees confined to each cell or room does not exceed the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity for which it was designed.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cells and rooms are well ventilated, adequately lit, appropriately heated and|        |            |       |                                              |
|maintained in a sanitary condition at all times.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Permanent housing logs are maintained in SMUs to record pertinent information|        |            |       |                                              |
|on detainees upon admission to and release from the unit, and in which       |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisory staff and other officials record their visits to the unit.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A permanent log is maintained in each SMU to record all activities concerning|        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU detainees (meals served, recreation, visitors, etc.).                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, the SMU log records the detainee's name, A-number, housing |        |            |       |                                              |
|location, date admitted, reasons for admission, tentative release date for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in Disciplinary Segregation, the authorizing official, and date    |        |            |       |                                              |
|released.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, a separate log is maintained in the SMU that all persons   |        |            |       |                                              |
|visiting the unit must sign and record:                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The time and date of the visit, and                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any unusual activity or behavior of an individual detainee, with a follow-up |        |            |       |                                              |
|memorandum sent through the facility administrator to the detainee's file.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Special Management Housing Unit Record is maintained on each detainee in an|        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU:                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs form I-888 (Special Management Housing Unit Record) is prepared      |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately upon the detainee’s placement in the SMU.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In CDFs and IGSA facilities form I-888 or a comparable form is used.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs:                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|By the end of each shift, the special housing unit officer records:          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Whether the detainee ate, showered, exercised, and took any medication, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any additional information, for example, if the detainee has a medical       |        |            |       |                                              |
|condition, has exhibited suicidal or assaultive behavior, etc.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a health care provider visits an SMU detainee, he or she signs that     |        |            |       |                                              |
|individual’s record, and the housing officer initials the record after all   |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical visits are completed and no later than the end of the shift.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon a detainee’s release from the SMU, the releasing officer attaches the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|entire housing unit record to the Administrative Segregation Order or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation Order and forwards it to the Supervisor for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|inclusion in the detainee’s detention file.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures concerning the property detainees may|        |            |       |                                              |
|retain in each type of segregation.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures concerning privileges detainees may  |        |            |       |                                              |
|have in each type of segregation.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|(In Administrative Segregation, detainees generally receive the same general |        |            |       |                                              |
|privileges as detainees in the general population, as is consistent with     |        |            |       |                                              |
|available resources and safety and security considerations.)                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Administrative Segregation are provided opportunities to spend  |        |            |       |                                              |
|time outside their cells (over and above the required recreation periods),   |        |            |       |                                              |
|for such activities as socializing, watching TV, and playing board games and |        |            |       |                                              |
|may be assigned to work details (for example, as orderlies in the SMU).      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are personally observed at least every 30 minutes in an    |        |            |       |                                              |
|irregular schedule and more often when warranted for some cases (violent,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|mentally disordered, bizarre behavior, suicidal).                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The shift supervisor sees each segregated detainee daily, including weekends |        |            |       |                                              |
|and holidays.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator (or designee) visits each SMU daily.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A health care provider visits every detainee in an SMU at least three times a|        |            |       |                                              |
|week, and detainees are provided any medications prescribed for them.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, a nurse, doctor or other appropriate health care           |        |            |       |                                              |
|professional visits the SMU at least once each workday and questions each    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee to identify any medical problems or requests.  Any action taken is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented in a separate logbook, and the medical visit is recorded on the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s SMU Housing Record (Form I-888).                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are provided three nutritionally adequate meals per day,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ordinarily from the general population menu.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs may shave and shower three times weekly and receive other  |        |            |       |                                              |
|basic services (laundry, hair care, barbering, clothing, bedding, linen) on  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the same basis as the general population.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only for documented medical or mental health reasons are detainees denied    |        |            |       |                                              |
|such items as clothing, mattress, bedding, linens, or a pillow.  If a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is so disturbed that he or she is likely to destroy clothing or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding or create a disturbance risking harm to self or others, the medical  |        |            |       |                                              |
|department is notified immediately and a regimen of treatment and control    |        |            |       |                                              |
|instituted by the medical officer.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU may write and receive letters the same as the general    |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU ordinarily retain visiting privileges.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate documentation was generated for any restricted or disallowed general|        |            |       |                                              |
|visits for a detainee in an SMU who violated visiting rules or whose behavior|        |            |       |                                              |
|indicated the detainee would be a threat to the security or good order of the|        |            |       |                                              |
|visiting room in the past year.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate documentation was generated, for any restricted or disallowed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|general visitation for a detainee in Administrative Segregation status       |        |            |       |                                              |
|because the detainee was charged with, or committed, a prohibited act having |        |            |       |                                              |
|to do with visiting guidelines or otherwise acted in a way that indicated the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee would be a threat to the orderly operation or security of the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|visiting room in the past year.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Under no circumstances is a detainee permitted to participate in general     |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation while in restraints.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, detainees in protective custody and violent and disruptive |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are not permitted to use the visitation room during normal         |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation hours.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, violent and disruptive detainees are limited to non-contact|        |            |       |                                              |
|visits and, in extreme cases, not permitted to visit.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in SMUs are not denied legal visitation.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are policy and procedures for a situation where special security       |        |            |       |                                              |
|precautions for legal visitation have to be implemented and for advising     |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal service providers and assistants prior to their visits.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are allowed visits by members of the clergy, upon request, |        |            |       |                                              |
|unless it is determined a visit presents a risk to safety, security, or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|orderly operations.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs have access to reading materials, including religious      |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials.  In SPCs and CDFs, the Recreation Specialist offers each detainee |        |            |       |                                              |
|soft-bound, non-legal books on a rotating basis, provided no detainee has    |        |            |       |                                              |
|more than two books (excluding religious material) at any one time.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs have access to legal materials, in accordance with the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention Standard on Law Libraries and Legal Material.  Detainees are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|permitted to retain a reasonable amount of personal legal material in the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU, provided it does not create a safety, security and/or sanitation hazard.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee requests for access to legal material in their personal property are|        |            |       |                                              |
|accommodated as soon as possible and always within 24 hours of a detainee’s  |        |            |       |                                              |
|request.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Administrative Segregation or Disciplinary Segregation have the |        |            |       |                                              |
|same law library access as the general population, unless compelling and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented security concerns require limitations.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy and procedures provide for legal material to be brought to individuals|        |            |       |                                              |
|in Disciplinary Segregation under certain circumstances.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any denial of access to the law library is always:                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supported by compelling security concerns,                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|For the shortest period required for security, and                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fully documented in the SMU housing logbook.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO is notified every time law library access is denied.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation for detainees in the SMU is separate from the general population. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has policy and procedures to ensure detainees who must be kept  |        |            |       |                                              |
|apart never participate in activities in the same location at the same time. |        |            |       |                                              |
|(For example, recreation for detainees in protective custody are separated   |        |            |       |                                              |
|from other detainees.)                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the SMU are offered at least one hour of recreation per day,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|scheduled at a reasonable time, at least five days per week.  Where cover is |        |            |       |                                              |
|not provided to mitigate inclement weather, detainees are provided           |        |            |       |                                              |
|weather-appropriate equipment and attire.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The recreation privilege is denied or suspended only if it would unreasonably|        |            |       |                                              |
|endanger safety or security.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, a detainee is denied recreation privileges only with the facility|        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator’s written authorization that documents why the detainee poses  |        |            |       |                                              |
|an unreasonable risk even when recreating alone.  For an immediate safety or |        |            |       |                                              |
|security situation, the shift supervisor may verbally authorize denial of an |        |            |       |                                              |
|instance of recreation.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee in an SMU is deprived of recreation (or any usual authorized |        |            |       |                                              |
|items or activity), a report of the action is forwarded to the facility      |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The case of a detainee denied recreation privileges is reviewed at least once|        |            |       |                                              |
|each week, as part of the reviews required for all detainees in SMU status.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The reviewer documents whether the detainee continues to pose a threat to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|self, others, or facility security and, if so, why.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Denial of recreation privileges for more than 15 days requires the           |        |            |       |                                              |
|concurrence of the facility administrator and the health authority.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility notifies ICE/DRO when a detainee is denied recreation privileges|        |            |       |                                              |
|for more than 15 days.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in Administrative Segregation have telephone access    |        |            |       |                                              |
|similar to detainees in the general population, in a manner consistent with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the special security and safety requirements of an SMU.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Disciplinary Segregation may be restricted from using telephones|        |            |       |                                              |
|to make general calls as part of the disciplinary process; however,          |        |            |       |                                              |
|ordinarily, they are permitted to make direct and/or free and legal calls as |        |            |       |                                              |
|described in the Detention Standard on Telephone Access, except for          |        |            |       |                                              |
|compelling and documented reasons of safety, security, and good order.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, a written order is completed and approved by a supervisor before |        |            |       |                                              |
|a detainee is placed in Administrative Segregation.  If exigent circumstances|        |            |       |                                              |
|make that impracticable, the order is prepared as soon as possible.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A copy of the order is given to the detainee within 24 hours, unless delivery|        |            |       |                                              |
|would jeopardize the safety, security, or orderly operation of the facility. |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the segregation is for protective custody, the order states whether the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee requested the segregation and whether the detainee requests a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|hearing.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The order remains on file in the SMU until the detainee is released from the |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU, at which point the releasing officer records the date and time of       |        |            |       |                                              |
|release on the order and forwards it to the chief of security or supervisor  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for the detainee’s detention file.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|(An Administrative Segregation Order is not required for a detainee awaiting |        |            |       |                                              |
|removal, release, or transfer within 24 hours.)                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are implemented written procedures for the regular review of all       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in Administrative Segregation.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A supervisor conducts a review within 72 hours of the detainee’s placement in|        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrative Segregation to determine whether segregation is still         |        |            |       |                                              |
|warranted. The review includes an interview with the detainee, and a written |        |            |       |                                              |
|record is made of the decision and the justification.  In SPCs and CDFs, the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrative Segregation Review Form (I-885) is used.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee is segregated for the detainee's protection, but not at the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee's request, continued detention requires the authorizing signature of|        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility administrator or assistant facility administrator on the I-885. |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee has spent seven days in Administrative Segregation, and every|        |            |       |                                              |
|week thereafter for the first 60 days and at least every 30 days thereafter, |        |            |       |                                              |
|a supervisor conducts a similar review, including an interview with the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, and documents the decision and justification.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A reviewing authority who concludes a detainee should be removed from        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrative Segregation, submits that recommendation to the facility      |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator (or designee) for approval.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|A copy of the decision and justification for each review is given to the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, unless, in exceptional circumstances, this provision would         |        |            |       |                                              |
|jeopardize security.  The detainee is given an opportunity to appeal a review|        |            |       |                                              |
|decision to a higher authority within the facility.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|After seven consecutive days in Administrative Segregation, the detainee may |        |            |       |                                              |
|exercise the right to appeal to the facility administrator the conclusions   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and recommendations of any review conducted.  The detainee may use any       |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard form of written communication (for example, detainee request form), |        |            |       |                                              |
|to file the appeal.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee has been in Administrative Segregation for more than 30 days   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and objects to this status, the facility administrator reviews the case to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|determine whether that status should continue, taking into account the views |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the detainee.  A written record is made of the decision and the           |        |            |       |                                              |
|justification.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A similar review is done every 30 days thereafter.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee has been held in Administrative Segregation for more than 30 |        |            |       |                                              |
|days, the facility administrator notifies the Field Office Director, who     |        |            |       |                                              |
|notifies the ICE/DRO Deputy Assistant Director, Detention Management         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Division.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee is held in Administrative Segregation for more than 60 days, |        |            |       |                                              |
|the Field Office Director notifies, in writing, the Deputy Assistant         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Director, Detention Management Division for consideration of whether it would|        |            |       |                                              |
|be appropriate to transfer the detainee to a facility where he or she may be |        |            |       |                                              |
|placed in the general population.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation only by order of the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Institutional Disciplinary Panel (IDP), or equivalent, after a hearing in    |        |            |       |                                              |
|which the detainee has been found guilty of a prohibited act.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The maximum of a 60 day sanction in Disciplinary Segregation for a violation |        |            |       |                                              |
|associated with a single incident.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|After the first 30 days in Disciplinary Segregation, the facility            |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator sends a written justification to the Field Office Director, who|        |            |       |                                              |
|may decide to transfer the detainee to a facility where he or she could be   |        |            |       |                                              |
|placed in the general population.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before a detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation, a written order is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|completed and signed by the chair of the IDP (or equivalent).  A copy is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|given to the detainee within 24 hours (unless delivery would jeopardize      |        |            |       |                                              |
|safety, security, or the orderly operation of the facility).                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The IDP chairman (or equivalent) prepares the Disciplinary Segregation Order |        |            |       |                                              |
|(I-883 or equivalent), detailing the reasons for Disciplinary Segregation and|        |            |       |                                              |
|attaching all relevant documentation.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the detainee is released from the SMU, the releasing officer records the|        |            |       |                                              |
|date and time of release on the Disciplinary Segregation Order, and forwards |        |            |       |                                              |
|the completed order to the chief of security or supervisor for insertion into|        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee’s detention file.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has implemented written procedures for the regular review of all|        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation cases.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A supervisor, interviews and reviews the status of each detainee in          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation every seven days and documents his or her findings  |        |            |       |                                              |
|on a Disciplinary Segregation Review Form (I-887).                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|At each formal review, the detainee is to be given a written copy of the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|reviewing officer’s decision and the basis for this finding, unless          |        |            |       |                                              |
|institutional security would be compromised.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The reviewer may recommend the detainee’s early release upon finding that    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation is no longer necessary to regulate the detainee’s   |        |            |       |                                              |
|behavior.  Early release and return to the general population requires       |        |            |       |                                              |
|approval of the facility administrator.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All review documents are placed in the detainee's detention file.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard enhances security, safety, and orderly facility operations by encouraging and requiring informal direct and written contact among  |
|staff and detainees, as well as informal supervisory observation of living and working conditions.                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|It also requires the posting of Hotline informational posters from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General.                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The ICE/DRO Field Office Director ensures that     weekly announced and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|unannounced visits occur.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention Staff and Deportation Staff conduct scheduled weekly visits with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Scheduled visits are posted in ICE/DRO detainee housing areas.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visiting ICE staff observe and note current climate and conditions of        |        |            |       |                                              |
|confinement.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO Detainee Request Forms are available for use by ICE/DRO detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility treats detainee correspondence to ICE/DRO staff as Special      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A secure box is located in an accessible location for detainee’s to place    |        |            |       |                                              |
|their Detainee Request Forms.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only ICE staff are able to retrieve the contents of the secure box containing|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Request Forms,                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO staff respond to a detainee request from a facility within 72 hours  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and document the response in a log.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO detainees are notified in writing upon admission to the facility of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|their right to correspond with ICE/DRO staff regarding their case or         |        |            |       |                                              |
|conditions of confinement.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|OIG Hotline Informational Posters are mounted in all appropriate common areas|        |            |       |                                              |
|(recreation, dining, etc.) and, in SPCs and CDFs, in all housing areas.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Daily telephone serviceability checks are documented in the housing unit     |        |            |       |                                              |
|logbook.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


  |PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, and volunteers from harm and contributes to orderly facility operations by maintaining     |
|control of tools, culinary utensils, and medical and dental instruments, equipment, and supplies.                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) There is an individual who is responsible for developing a tool  |        |            |       |                                              |
|control procedure and an inspection system to insure accountability.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the warehouse is located outside the secure perimeter, the warehouse      |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives all tool deliveries.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the warehouse is located inside the secure perimeter the facility         |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator shall develop site-specific procedures, for example; storing   |        |            |       |                                              |
|tools at the rear sallyport until picked up and receipted by the tool control|        |            |       |                                              |
|officer.  The tool control officer immediately places certain tools (band saw|        |            |       |                                              |
|blades, files and all restricted tools) in secure storage.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The use of tools, keys, medical equipment, and culinary equipment|        |            |       |                                              |
|is controlled.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A metal or plastic chit is taken in exchange for all tools issued, and when a|        |            |       |                                              |
|tool is issued from a shadow board the receipt chit shall be visible on the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|shadow board.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tool inventories are required for:                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Maintenance Department                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Department                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food Service Department                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronics Shop                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation Department                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Armory                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tool Inventories are conspicuously posted on all tool boards, tool boxes and |        |            |       |                                              |
|tool kits.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a policy for the regular inventory of all tools.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The policy sets minimum time lines for physical inventory and all necessary  |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE facilities use AMIS bar code labels when required.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a tool classification system. Tools are classified according|        |            |       |                                              |
|to:                                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restricted (dangerous/hazardous)                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non Restricted (non-hazardous).                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Department heads are responsible for implementing proper tool control        |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures as described in the standard.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are policies and procedures in place to ensure that all tools are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly marked and readily identifiable.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has an approved tool storage system.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The system ensures that all stored tools are accountable.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools are stored on shadow boards in which the shadows resemble the tool.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Shadow boards have a white background.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restricted tools are shadowed in red.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non-restricted tools are shadowed in black.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Commonly used tools (tools that can be mounted) are stored in such a way that|        |            |       |                                              |
|missing tools are readily noticed.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools removed from service have their shadows removed from shadow boards.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools not adaptable to a shadow board are stored in a locked drawer or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|cabinet.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sterile packs are stored under lock and key.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility has procedures for the issuance of tools to staff and          |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are policies and procedures to address the issue of lost tools.  The   |        |            |       |                                              |
|policy and procedures include:                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Verbal and written notification.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures for detainee access.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Necessary documentation/review for all incidents of lost tools.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Broken or worn out tools are surveyed and disposed of in an appropriate and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|secure manner.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All private or contract repairs and maintenance workers under contract with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE, or other visitors, submit an inventory of all tools prior to admittance |        |            |       |                                              |
|into or departure from the facility. The inventory is reviewed and verified  |        |            |       |                                              |
|prior to the contractor entering/departing the facility.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hoses longer than three feet in length are classified as a restricted tool.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Scissors used for in-processing detainees are tethered to the furniture (e.g.|        |            |       |                                              |
|table, counter, etc.) where they are used.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

Reviewer’s Signature / Date
|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard authorizes staff to use necessary physical force, after all reasonable efforts to otherwise resolve a situation have failed, and   |
|only for protection of self, detainees, or others, for prevention of escape or serious property damage, or to maintain the security and orderly operation  |
|of the facility.                                                                                                                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has a Use of Force Policy.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy authorizes staff to respond in an immediate-use-of-force      |        |            |       |                                              |
|situation without a supervisor’s presence or direction.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the detainee is in an area that is or can be isolated (e.g., a locked   |        |            |       |                                              |
|cell, a range), posing no direct threat to the detainee or others, policy    |        |            |       |                                              |
|requires that staff must try to resolve the situation without resorting to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|force.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy asserts that calculated rather than immediate use of force is |        |            |       |                                              |
|feasible in most cases.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility subscribes to the prescribed Confrontation Avoidance Procedures.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Ranking detention official, health professional, and others confer before    |        |            |       |                                              |
|every calculated use of force.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee must be forcibly moved and/or restrained and there is time   |        |            |       |                                              |
|for a calculated use of force, staff use the Use-of-Force Team Technique.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Under staff supervision.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff members are trained in the performance of the Use-of-Force Team        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Technique.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All use-of-force incidents are documented and reviewed.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All use of force incidents are properly documented and forwarded for review; |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediate use of force documentation at a minimum, shall include the medical |        |            |       |                                              |
|examination through the conclusion of the incident.  All calculated uses of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|force incidents must be audio visually recorded in its entirety from the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|beginning of the incident to its conclusion.  Any breaks in recording, e.g., |        |            |       |                                              |
|dead batteries, tape exhausted, are fully explained on the video.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff:                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Does not use force as punishment.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attempts to gain the detainee's voluntary cooperation   before resorting to  |        |            |       |                                              |
|force                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses only as much force as necessary to control the    detainee.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses restraints only when other non-confrontational      means, including    |        |            |       |                                              |
|verbal persuasion, have failed or are  impractical.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medication may only be used for restraint purposes when authorized by the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Authority as medically necessary.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Use-of-Force Teams follow written procedures that attempt to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|prevent injury and exposure to communicable disease(s).                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard procedures associated with using four/five point restraints include:|        |            |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Soft (nylon/leather) restraints.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dressing the detainee appropriately for the temperature.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A bed, mattress, and blanket/sheet.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Checking the detainee at least every 15 minutes.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Logging each check.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Repositioning detainee often enough to prevent soreness or stiffness.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical evaluation of the restrained detainee twice per eight-hour shift.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When qualified medical staff is not immediately available, staff position the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee "face-up."                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The shift supervisor monitors the detainee's position/condition every two    |        |            |       |                                              |
|hours.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|He/she allows the detainee to use the restroom at these times under          |        |            |       |                                              |
|safeguards.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainee checks are logged.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|In immediate-use-of-force situations, officers contact medical staff once the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is under control.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the Facility Administrator authorizes use of non-lethal weapons:        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff is consulted before staff use pepper spray/non-lethal weapons. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff review the detainee's medical file before use of a non-lethal  |        |            |       |                                              |
|weapon is authorized.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intermediate Force Weapons, when not in use are stored in areas where access |        |            |       |                                              |
|is limited to authorized personnel and to which detainees have no access.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|If Intermediate Force Weapons are stored in the Special Management Unit      |        |            |       |                                              |
|(SMU), they are stored and maintained the same as Class R tools.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special precautions are taken when restraining pregnant detainees.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical personnel are consulted                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Protective gear is worn when restraining detainees with open cuts or wounds. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff documents every use of force ,including what type of restraints were   |        |            |       |                                              |
|used during the incident.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|It is standard practice to review any use of force and the non-routine       |        |            |       |                                              |
|application of restraints.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All officers receive training in self-defense, confrontation-avoidance       |        |            |       |                                              |
|techniques and the use of force to control detainees.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specialized training is given to officers ensuring they are certified in all |        |            |       |                                              |
|devices approved for use.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff authorized to use OC spray receive training not only in its use,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|but also in the decontamination of individuals exposed to it. This training  |        |            |       |                                              |
|must be documented in the staff training record.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The use of canines is restricted to contraband detection purposes only.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The officers are thoroughly trained in the use of soft and hard restraints.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs, the Use of Force form is used.  In other facilities (IGSAs / CDFs)  |        |            |       |                                              |
|this form or its equivalent is used.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date














Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section III ORDER

19 Disciplinary System

|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard promotes a safe and orderly living environment for detainees by expecting detainees to comply with facility rules and regulations  |
|and imposing disciplinary sanctions to control the behavior of those who do not.                                                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written disciplinary system using progressive levels of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|reviews and appeals.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility rules state that disciplinary action shall not be capricious or |        |            |       |                                              |
|retaliatory.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written rules prohibit staff from imposing or permitting the following       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanctions:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|deviations from normal food service                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing deprivation                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding deprivation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|denial of personal hygiene items                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|loss of correspondence privileges                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|deprivation of legal access and legal materials                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|deprivation of physical exercise                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The rules of conduct, sanctions, and procedures for violations are defined in|        |            |       |                                              |
|writing and communicated to all detainees verbally and in writing.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following items are conspicuously posted in Spanish and English or other |        |            |       |                                              |
|dominate languages used in the facility:                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and Responsibilities                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited Acts                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Severity Scale                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sanctions                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When minor rule violations or prohibited acts occur, informal resolutions are|        |            |       |                                              |
|encouraged.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incident Reports and Notice of Charges are promptly forwarded to the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|designated supervisor.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incident Reports are investigated within 24 hours of the incident.  The Unit |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Committee (UDC) or equivalent does not convene before           |        |            |       |                                              |
|investigations end.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|An intermediate disciplinary process is used to adjudicate minor infractions.|        |            |       |                                              |
|A disciplinary panel (or equivalent in IGSAs) adjudicates infractions.  The  |        |            |       |                                              |
|panel:                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Conducts hearings on all charges and allegations referred by the UDC         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Considers written reports, statements, physical evidence, and oral testimony |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hears pleadings by detainee and staff representative                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bases its findings on the preponderance of evidence                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Imposes only authorized sanctions                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A staff representative is available if requested for a detainee facing a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|disciplinary hearing                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility permits hearing postponements or continuances when conditions   |        |            |       |                                              |
|warrant such a continuance.  Reasons are documented.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The duration of punishment set by the Facility Administrator, as recommended |        |            |       |                                              |
|by the disciplinary panel does not exceed established sanctions. The maximum |        |            |       |                                              |
|time in disciplinary segregation does not exceed 60 days for a single        |        |            |       |                                              |
|offense.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern the handling of confidential-source information.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include criteria for recognizing "substantial evidence".          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All forms relevant to the incident, investigation, committee/panel reports,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|etc., are completed and distributed as required.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section IV CARE

20    Food Service
21    Hunger Strikes
22    Medical Care
23    Personal Hygiene
24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees are provided a nutritionally balanced diet that is prepared and presented in a sanitary and hygienic food   |
|service operation.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The food service program is under the direct supervision of a professionally |        |            |       |                                              |
|trained and certified Food Service Administrator (FSA). The Responsibilities |        |            |       |                                              |
|of cooks and cook foremen are in writing.  The FSA determines the            |        |            |       |                                              |
|responsibilities of the Food Service Staff.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman is on duty on days when the FSA is off duty and vice versa. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA provides food service employees with training that specifically      |        |            |       |                                              |
|addresses detainee-related issues. In ICE Facilities this includes a review  |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the "Food Service" standard                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Knife cabinets close with an approved locking device and the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|on-duty cook foreman maintains control of the key that locks the device.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Knives and keys are inventoried and stored in accordance with the Detention  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Tool Control                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All knives not in a secure cutting room are physically secured to the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstation and staff directly supervise detainees using knives at these     |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstations. Staff monitor the condition of knives and dining utensils      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special procedures (when necessary) govern the handling of food items that   |        |            |       |                                              |
|pose a security threat.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operating procedures include daily searches (shakedowns) of detainee work    |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA monitors staff implementation of the facility population count       |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures. These procedures are in writing. Staff are trained in count      |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) There is adequate health protection for all detainees and staff  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility, and for all persons working in food service.  Detainees and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other persons working in food service are monitored each day for health and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|cleanliness by the food service supervisor or designee. Detainee clothing and|        |            |       |                                              |
|grooming comply with the "Food Service" standard.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA annually reviews detainee-volunteer job descriptions to ensure they  |        |            |       |                                              |
|are accurate and up-to-date.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman or equivalent instructs newly assigned detainee workers in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the rules and procedures of the food service department.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|During orientation and training session(s), the Cook Supervisor (CS) explains|        |            |       |                                              |
|and demonstrates:                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safe work practices and methods.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safety features of individual products/ pieces of equipment.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training covers the safe handling of hazardous material[s] the detainee are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|likely to encounter in their work.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman documents all training in individual detainee detention     |        |            |       |                                              |
|files.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees at SPCs and CDFs are paid in accordance with the “Voluntary Work   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program” standard.  Detainee workers at IGSAs are subject to local and State |        |            |       |                                              |
|rules and regulations regarding detainee pay.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are served at least two hot meals every day.  No more than 14 hours|        |            |       |                                              |
|elapse between the last meal served and the first meal of the following day. |        |            |       |                                              |
|For cafeteria-style operations, a transparent "sneeze guard" protects both   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the serving line and salad bar line.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a standard 35-day menu cycle.  IGSAs use a 35 day or similar|        |            |       |                                              |
|system for rotating meals.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) A registered dietitian conducts a complete nutritional analysis, |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least every six months, of every master-cycle menu planned by the FSA.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The dietitian certifies menus before implementation.  If necessary, the FSA  |        |            |       |                                              |
|modifies the menu in light of the nutritional analysis, to ensure nutritional|        |            |       |                                              |
|adequacy.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The cycle is reevaluated to maintain the integrity of the nutritional        |        |            |       |                                              |
|analysis.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|A registered dietitian conducts a complete nutritional analysis of every     |        |            |       |                                              |
|master-cycle menu planned.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA has established procedures to ensure that items on the master-cycle  |        |            |       |                                              |
|menu are prepared and presented according to approved recipes.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman has the authority to change menu items if necessary.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|If yes, documenting each substitution, along with its justification, with    |        |            |       |                                              |
|copy to the FSA                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff and volunteers know and adhere to written "food preparation"       |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Common Fare menu available to detainees, at no charge, whose dietary       |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements cannot be met on the main.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Changes to the planned Common Fare menu can be made at the facility level.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hot entrees are offered three times a week.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Common Fare menus satisfy nutritional recommended daily allowances       |        |            |       |                                              |
|(RDAs).                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff routinely provides hot water for instant beverages and foods.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Common Fare meals are served with:                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disposable plates and utensils.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reusable plates and utensils.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff use separate cutting boards, knives, spoons, scoops, etc., to prepare  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the Common Fare diet items.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees whose religious beliefs require the adherence to particular        |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious dietary laws are referred to the Chaplain or FSA.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A supervisor at the command level must approve a detainee’s removal from the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Common Fare Program.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator, in conjunction with the chaplain and/or local    |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious leaders provide the FSA a schedule of the ceremonial meals for the |        |            |       |                                              |
|following calendar year.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Common Fare Program accommodates detainees abstaining from particular    |        |            |       |                                              |
|foods or fasting for religious purposes at prescribed times of the year.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Muslims fasting during Ramadan receive their meals after sundown.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Jews who observe Passover but do not participate in the Common Fare Program  |        |            |       |                                              |
|receive the same Kosher-for- Passover meals as those who do participate.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Main-line offerings include one meatless meal (lunch or dinner) on Ash       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Wednesday and Fridays during Lent.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The food service program addresses medical diets.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Satellite-feeding programs follow guidelines for proper sanitation.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hot and cold foods are maintained at the prescribed, "safe" temperature(s) as|        |            |       |                                              |
|served.  See Detention Standard on Food Service for guidance.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|All meals provided in nutritionally adequate portions.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food is not used to punish or reward detainees based upon behavior.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The food service staff instructs detainee volunteers on:                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal cleanliness and hygiene;                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sanitary techniques for preparing, storing, and serving food, and;           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The sanitary operation, care, and maintenance of equipment.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Everyone working in the food service department complies with food safety and|        |            |       |                                              |
|sanitation requirements.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility implements written procedures for the               |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrative, medical, and/or dietary personnel conducting the weekly      |        |            |       |                                              |
|inspections of all food service areas, including dining, storage, equipment, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and food-preparation areas.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reports of discrepancies are forwarded to the Facility Administrator or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|designated department head and corrective action is scheduled and completed. |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Standard procedure includes checking and documenting temperatures|        |            |       |                                              |
|of all dishwashing machines after each meal, in accordance with the Detention|        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Food Service.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Staff documents the results of every refrigerator/ freezer       |        |            |       |                                              |
|temperature check, in accordance with the Detention Standard on Food Service.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The cleaning schedule for each food service area is conspicuously posted.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include inspecting all incoming food shipments for damage,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|contamination, and pest infestation.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Storage areas are locked when not in use.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food service personnel conduct shakedowns along with detention staff.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs only:  The ICE supervisor on duty ensures that ICE officers          |        |            |       |                                              |
|participate in dining room supervision.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Menus are certified by a registered dietitian prior to being incorporated    |        |            |       |                                              |
|into the Food Service Program.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs only: the FSA prepares quarterly cost estimates for the Common Fare  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program. This quarterly estimate is factored into the quarterly budget.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|When required, only food service staff prepares the sack lunches for detainee|        |            |       |                                              |
|transportation.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Air curtains or comparable devices are used on outside doors where food is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|prepared, stored, or served to protect against insects and other rodents.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff complies with the ICE requirements for "food receipt and storage.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Stock inventory levels are monitored and adjusted to correct overage and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|shortage problems.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff complies with all ICE Housekeeping, Storeroom/Refrigerator             |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements. Identify and explain any shortcomings.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dining room facilities and operating procedures will provide sufficient space|        |            |       |                                              |
|and time for detainees to eat meals in a relatively relaxed, unregimented    |        |            |       |                                              |
|atmosphere.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY)  An independent, external source shall conduct annual inspections|        |            |       |                                              |
|to ensure that the food service facilities and equipment meet governmental   |        |            |       |                                              |
|health and safety codes.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corrective action is taken on deficiencies, if any.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel inspecting the food service department shall note needed corrective|        |            |       |                                              |
|action(s), if any, in a written report to the Facility Administrator.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only those toxic and caustic materials required for sanitary maintenance of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility, equipment, and utensils shall be used in the food service      |        |            |       |                                              |
|department. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) will be maintained on all    |        |            |       |                                              |
|flammable, toxic, and caustic substances used.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The FSA is responsible for pest control in the food service      |        |            |       |                                              |
|department, including contracting the services of an outside exterminator.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date







|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well-being by monitoring, counseling and, when appropriate, treating any detainee who is on a hunger|
|strike.                                                                                                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|When a detainee has refused food or observed to have not eaten for 72 hours, |        |            |       |                                              |
|it is standard practice for staff to refer him or her to the medical         |        |            |       |                                              |
|department.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility immediately reports via the chain of command a hunger strike to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has established procedures to ensure staff respond immediately  |        |            |       |                                              |
|to a hunger strike.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy and procedure require that staff isolate a hunger-striking detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|from other detainees.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical personnel are authorized to place a detainee in the Special          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management Unit or a locked hospital room.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff records the weight and vital signs of a hunger-striking        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee at least once every 24 hours.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility medical authority obtains a hunger striker’s consent before     |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical treatment.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|A signed Refusal of Treatment form is required of every detainee who rejects |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical evaluation or treatment, or two staff/provider signatures indicating |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee refusal to sign form.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Unless otherwise directed by the medical authority, staff deliver three meals|        |            |       |                                              |
|per day to the detainee's room, regardless of the detainee's response to a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|verbally offered meal and document those meal offers.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintain the hunger striker’s supply of drinking water/other beverages.|        |            |       |                                              |
|During a hunger strike, staff remove all food items from the hunger striker’s|        |            |       |                                              |
|living area.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are directed to record the hunger striker’s fluid intake and food      |        |            |       |                                              |
|consumption on the Hunger Strike Monitoring Form I-839 or equivalent.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical staff has written procedures for treating hunger strikers.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff document all treatment attempts in the medical record, including       |        |            |       |                                              |
|attempts to persuade the hunger striker by counseling him or her of the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical risks.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive orientation and annual training on recognizing the signs of|        |            |       |                                              |
|a hunger striker and on the procedures for referral for medical assessment.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff receive training in hunger-strike evaluation and treatment and |        |            |       |                                              |
|remain up-to-date on these techniques.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees have access to a continuum of health care services, including prevention and health education, so that their|
|health care needs are met in a timely and efficient manner.                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility operates a health care facility in compliance with state and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|local laws and guidelines.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s in-processing procedures of arriving detainees include medical|        |            |       |                                              |
|screening.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The essential positions needed to perform the health services    |        |            |       |                                              |
|mission and provide the required scope of services are described in a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|staffing plan that is reviewed at least annually by the health authority.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Newly admitted detainees will be informed, orally and in writing |        |            |       |                                              |
|(in a language they can understand), about how to access health services.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees will have access to and receive specified 24-hour emergency        |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical, dental, and mental health services.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|New direct care staff will receive tuberculosis tests prior to their job     |        |            |       |                                              |
|assignment and periodically thereafter and will be offered the hepatitis B   |        |            |       |                                              |
|vaccine series.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health care services will be provided by trained and qualified personnel,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|whose duties are governed by job descriptions and who are properly licensed, |        |            |       |                                              |
|certified, credentialed, and/or registered in compliance with applicable     |        |            |       |                                              |
|state and federal requirements.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides each detainee, upon admittance, a copy of the detainee |        |            |       |                                              |
|handbook or equivalent, in which procedures for access to health care        |        |            |       |                                              |
|services are explained (in a language they can understand).                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, medical personnel credentialing and verification complies  |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the standards established by the NCCHC and JCAHO.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediately upon their arrival, all newly admitted detainees receive initial |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical, dental and mental health screening by a health care provider or a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detention officer specially trained to perform this function.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|When screening is performed by a detention officer, the facility maintains   |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation of the officer’s special training.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) If language difficulties prevent the health care provider/officer|        |            |       |                                              |
|from sufficiently communicating with the detainee for purposes of completing |        |            |       |                                              |
|the medical screening, the officer obtains translation assistance.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has sufficient space and equipment to afford each detainee      |        |            |       |                                              |
|privacy when receiving health care.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical facility has its own restricted-access area.  The restricted     |        |            |       |                                              |
|access area is located within the confines of the secure perimeter.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical facility entrance includes a holding/waiting room.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical facility’s holding/waiting room under the direct supervision of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|custodial staff.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the holding/waiting room have access to a toilet and a drinking |        |            |       |                                              |
|fountain.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical records are kept apart from other files.  They are:                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Secured in a locked area within the medical unit.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|With physical access restricted to authorized medical staff.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedurally, no copies made and placed in detainee files.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|18.  (MANDATORY) A signed and dated consent form is obtained from a detainee |        |            |       |                                              |
|before medical treatment is administered.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees use the I-813 (or IGSA equivalent) to authorize the release of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|confidential medical records to outside sources.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility health care provider is given advance notice prior to the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|release, transfer, or removal of a detainee.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee's medical records will be transferred as appropriate.  All        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees will be transferred with a copy of their transfer summary.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical records are placed in a sealed envelope or other container labeled   |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the detainee's name and A-number and marked "MEDICAL CONFIDENTIAL.”     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical screening includes a Tuberculosis (TB) test.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees receive a mental-health screening upon arrival.  It is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducted:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|By a health care provider or specially trained officer;                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before a detainee’s assignment to a housing unit.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility health care provider promptly reviews all I-794s (or equivalent)|        |            |       |                                              |
|to identify detainees needing medical attention.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Each facility’s health care provider conducts a health appraisal |        |            |       |                                              |
|and physical examination on each detainee within 14 days of arrival.  If     |        |            |       |                                              |
|there is documentation of one within the previous 90 days, the facility      |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care provider may determine that a new appraisal is not required.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the Special Management Unit have access to the same level of    |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care as detainees in the general population.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff provides detainees with health- services (sick call) request slips     |        |            |       |                                              |
|daily, upon request.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Request slips are available in the languages other than English, including   |        |            |       |                                              |
|every language spoken by a sizeable number of the facility’s detainee        |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Service-request slips are delivered in a timely fashion to the health care   |        |            |       |                                              |
|provider.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has a written plan for the delivery of 24-hour      |        |            |       |                                              |
|emergency health care when no medical personnel are on duty at the facility, |        |            |       |                                              |
|or when immediate outside medical attention is required.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan includes an on-call provider.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan includes a list of telephone numbers for local ambulances and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|hospital services.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan includes procedures for facility staff to utilize this emergency    |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care consistent with security and safety.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Detention and health care personnel will be trained, at least    |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually, to respond to health-related situations within four minutes and to |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly use first aid kits, available in designated areas.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Where staff is used to distribute medication, a health care provider properly|        |            |       |                                              |
|trains these officers.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Pharmaceuticals and nonprescription medicines will be stored, inventoried,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|dispensed, and administered in accordance with sound standards and facility  |        |            |       |                                              |
|needs for safety and security.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Each facility has written policy and procedures for the          |        |            |       |                                              |
|management of pharmaceuticals that include:                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A formulary of all prescription and nonprescription medicines stocked or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|routinely procured from outside sources.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A method for obtaining medicines not on the formulary.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prescription practices, including requirements that medications are          |        |            |       |                                              |
|prescribed only when clinically indicated and that prescriptions are reviewed|        |            |       |                                              |
|before being renewed.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procurement, receipt, distribution, storage, dispensing, administration, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|disposal of medications.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Secure storage and perpetual inventory of all controlled substances (DEA     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Schedule II-V), syringes, and needles.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All pharmaceuticals are stored in a secure area with the following features: |        |            |       |                                              |
|A secure perimeter;                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Access limited to authorized medical staff (never detainees);                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Solid walls from floor to ceiling and a solid ceiling;                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A solid core entrance door with a high security lock (with no other access); |        |            |       |                                              |
|and                                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A secure medication storage area.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, the pharmacy  has a locking pass-through window.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administration and management in accordance with state and federal law.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervision by properly licensed personnel.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administration of medications by personnel properly trained and under the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervision of the health services administrator, or equivalent.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accountability for administering or distributing medications in a timely     |        |            |       |                                              |
|manner and according to physician orders.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Distribution of medication is in accordance with specific instructions and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures established by the health care provider.  Written records of all  |        |            |       |                                              |
|medication given to detainees are maintained.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medication may not be delivered or administered by detainees.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|In facilities that are medically staffed 24 hours a day, the health care     |        |            |       |                                              |
|provider distributes medication.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|In facilities that are not medically staffed 24 hours a day, medication may  |        |            |       |                                              |
|be distributed by detention officers, who have received proper training by   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the health care provider, only when medication must be delivered at a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|specific time when medical staff are not on duty.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains documentation of the training given any officer       |        |            |       |                                              |
|required to distribute medication, and the officer has available for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|reference the training syllabus or other guide or protocol provided by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|health authority.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Warden/Facility receive notification that a detainee that has special    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical needs.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures are in place, consistent with the detention standard, for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|examinations by independent medical service providers and experts.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Each facility has a written plan (or plans) that address the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|management of infectious and communicable diseases, including prevention,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|education, identification, surveillance, immunization (when applicable),     |        |            |       |                                              |
|treatment, follow-up, isolation (when indicated), and reporting to local,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|state, and federal agencies. Plans include:                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Coordination with public health authorities;                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ongoing education for staff and detainees;                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Control, treatment, and prevention strategies;                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Protection of individual confidentiality;                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Media relations;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management of tuberculosis, hepatitis A, B, and C, HIV infection, avian      |        |            |       |                                              |
|influenza, and                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting communicable diseases to local and/or state health departments in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accordance with local and state regulations.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees diagnosed with a communicable disease are isolated according to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|local medical operating procedures.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new arrivals receive TB screening in accordance with guidelines of the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Centers for Disease Control (CDC).  Unless a chest x-ray is the primary      |        |            |       |                                              |
|screening method, the PPD (mantoux method) is the primary screening method.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|(For a detainee on whom the PPD is contraindicated; a chest x-ray will be    |        |            |       |                                              |
|needed.  Detainees not screened are housed separate from the general         |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with symptoms suggestive of TB are placed in a negative pressure   |        |            |       |                                              |
|isolation room and promptly evaluated for TB disease.  Detainees at          |        |            |       |                                              |
|facilities with no negative pressure isolation room, are referred to an      |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate off-site facility.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A transportation system will be available that ensures timely access to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care services that are only available outside the facility, including:|        |            |       |                                              |
|prioritization of medical need, urgency (ambulance versus standard), and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|transfer of medical information.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee who requires close, chronic, or convalescent medical supervision    |        |            |       |                                              |
|will be treated in accordance with a plan approved by licensed physician,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|physician assist, nurse practitioner, dentist, or mental health practitioner |        |            |       |                                              |
|that includes directions to health care and other involved personnel.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Female detainees have access to pregnancy testing and pregnancy  |        |            |       |                                              |
|management services that include routine high-risk prenatal care, addiction  |        |            |       |                                              |
|management, comprehensive counseling and assistance, nutrition, and          |        |            |       |                                              |
|postpartum follow-up.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Detainees with chronic conditions (such as hypertension and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|diabetes) will receive periodic care and treatment that includes monitoring  |        |            |       |                                              |
|of medications, laboratory testing, and chronic care clinics, and others will|        |            |       |                                              |
|be scheduled for periodic routine medical examinations, as determined by the |        |            |       |                                              |
|health authority                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator, or other designated staff will be notified in    |        |            |       |                                              |
|writing of any detainees whose special medical or mental health needs        |        |            |       |                                              |
|requiring special consideration in such matters as housing, transfer, or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|transportation.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees will have access to emergency and specified routine dental care    |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided under direction and supervision of a licensed dentist.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Detainees with mental health problems will be referred to a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|mental health provider as needed for detection, diagnosis, treatment, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|stabilization to prevent psychiatric deterioration while confined.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Crisis intervention services are available for detainees who experience acute|        |            |       |                                              |
|mental health episodes.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical and mental health interviews, examinations, and procedures will be   |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducted in settings that respect detainees’ privacy, and female detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|will be provided female escorts for health care by male health care          |        |            |       |                                              |
|providers.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Any detainee referred for mental health treatment receives a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|comprehensive evaluation by a licensed mental health provider within 14 days |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the referral.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Restraints for medical or mental health purposes may be          |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized only by a qualified medical or mental health provider, after      |        |            |       |                                              |
|reaching the conclusion that less restrictive measures are not successful.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures that specify:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The conditions under which restraints may be applied;                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The types of restraints to be used;                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|How a detainee in restraints is to be monitored;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The length of time restraints are to be applied;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirements for documentation, including efforts to use less restrictive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|alternatives; and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|After-incident review.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical authority or mental health provider completes a Post-Restraints  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Observation Report form DIHS-867 or similar form.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Involuntary administration of psychotropic medications to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees complies with applicable laws and regulations and the authorizing  |        |            |       |                                              |
|physician or psychiatrist will:                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specify the duration of therapy;                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtain an order authorizing the administration of the drugh from a Federal   |        |            |       |                                              |
|District Court.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Document that less restrictive intervention options have been exercised      |        |            |       |                                              |
|without success;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detail how the medication is to be administered;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monitor the detainee for adverse reactions and side effects; and             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prepare treatment plans for less restrictive alternatives as soon as         |        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An initial dental screening exam should be performed within 14 days of the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s arrival.  If no on-site dentist is available, the initial dental  |        |            |       |                                              |
|screening may be performed by a physician, physician’s assistant, nurse      |        |            |       |                                              |
|practitioner or trained RN.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In each detention facility, the designated health authority and Facility     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrator determines the contents, number, location(s), use protocols,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and procedures for monthly inspections of first aid kits.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An automatic external defibrillator should be available for use at the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee refuses treatment, ICE/DRO will be consulted in determining    |        |            |       |                                              |
|whether forced treatment will be administered, except in emergency           |        |            |       |                                              |
|circumstances, in which case, ICE/DRO will be notified as soon as possible.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, the Facility Administrator and health services             |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator will meet at least quarterly and include other facility and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical staff as appropriate.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Biohazardous waste will be managed and medical and dental        |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment decontaminated in accordance with sound medical standards and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|compliance with applicable local, state, and federal regulations.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The health authority will implement a system of internal review  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and quality assurance.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding


Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)





Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee is able to maintain acceptable personal hygiene practices through the provision of adequate bathing     |
|facilities and the issuance and exchange of clean clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There is a policy and procedure for the regular issuance and exchange of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The supply of these items exceeds the minimum required for the number of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new detainees are issued clean, temperature-appropriate, presentable     |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing during in-processing.  Detainees receive, at a minimum:             |        |            |       |                                              |
|One uniform shirt and one pair of uniform pants or one jumpsuit.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of socks.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of underwear (daily change).                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of facility-issued footwear.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional clothing is available for changing weather conditions and as is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|seasonally appropriate.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|New detainees are issued clean bedding, linens and towels, at a minimum:     |        |            |       |                                              |
|One mattress                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|One blanket                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two sheets                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pillow                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pillowcase                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|One towel                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional blankets, based on local weather conditions.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides and replenishes personal hygiene items as needed.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Gender-specific items are available. ICE detainees are not charged for these |        |            |       |                                              |
|items.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Toilet facilities are:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate in number and can be used without staff assistance 24 hours per day |        |            |       |                                              |
|when detainees are confined in their cells or sleeping areas.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires that toilets be provided at a    |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum ratio of one for every 12 male detainees or one for every 8 female   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.  For males, urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|toilets.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bathing facilities are:                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable with temperatures between 100 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires one washbasin for every 12       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-09 requires a minimum ratio of one shower for|        |            |       |                                              |
|every 12 detainees.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with disabilities are provided adequate facilities, support, and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|assistance needed for self-care and personal hygiene.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided clean clothing, linen and towels.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Socks and undergarments - daily.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outer garments - twice weekly.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sheets - weekly.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Towels - weekly.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Pillowcases - weekly.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food service detainee volunteer workers are permitted to exchange outer      |        |            |       |                                              |
|garments daily.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Volunteer detainee workers are permitted to exchanges of outer garments more |        |            |       |                                              |
|frequently.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well being by training staff to prevent suicide by recognize potential signs and situations of risk |
|and to intervene with appropriate sensitivity, supervision, referral, and treatment.                                                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written suicide prevention and intervention program       |        |            |       |                                              |
|approved and signed by the health authority and Facility Administrator and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|reviewed annually.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every new staff member receives suicide-prevention training.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide-prevention training occurs during the employee orientation and annual|        |            |       |                                              |
|training.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training prepares staff to:                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective methods for identifying the warning signs and symptoms of impending|        |            |       |                                              |
|suicidal behavior,                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors of suicidal behavior,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed detainees,                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective communication between correctional and health care personnel,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Necessary referral procedures,                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level procedures,                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have already attempted suicide, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting and written documentation procedures..                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|A health-care provider or specially trained officer screens all detainees for|        |            |       |                                              |
|suicide potential as part of the admission process.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Screening does not occur later than one working day after the detainee’s     |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrival.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation exists that “specially trained officers”   have completed      |        |            |       |                                              |
|training in accordance with a syllabus approved by the medical authority.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures contain when and how to refer at-risk detainees to medical|        |            |       |                                              |
|staff and procedures are followed.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures include returning a previously suicidal detainee to the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|general population, upon written authorization of the clinical director or   |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate health care professional.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a designated isolation room for evaluation and treatment.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The designated isolation room does not contain any structures or smaller     |        |            |       |                                              |
|items that could be used in a suicide attempt.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff has approved the room for this purpose.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff observes and documents the status of a suicide-watch detainee at least |        |            |       |                                              |
|once every 15 minutes/constant observation.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)



Reviewer’s Signature / Date






































|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each facility’s continuum of health care services addresses terminal illness, fatal injury, and advance directives and|
|provides specific guidance in the event of a detainee’s death.                                                                                             |
|Check this box if the facility does not accept ICE detainees who are severely or terminally ill.  Indicate NA in the appropriate box for this portion of   |
|the worksheet.  ALWAYS complete all references to detainee death and related notifications.                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees, who are chronically or terminally ill, are transferred to an      |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate off-site medical facility.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility or appropriate ICE office promptly notifies the next-of-kin of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee’s: medical condition.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee's location.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visiting hours and rules at that location.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are guidelines addressing State Advanced Directive Form for            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Implementing Living Wills and Advanced Directives.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|These guidelines include instructions for detainees who wish to have a living|        |            |       |                                              |
|will.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|These guidelines provide the detainee the opportunity to have a private      |        |            |       |                                              |
|attorney prepare the documents, at the detainee’s expense.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a policy addressing  "Do Not Resuscitate Orders”                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with a "Do Not Resuscitate" order in the medical record receive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|maximal therapeutic efforts short of resuscitation.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility notifies ICE/DRO Medical Director and Headquarters’ Legal       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Counsel of the name and basic circumstances of any detainee with a "Do Not   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Resuscitate" order in the medical record.  In the case of IGSAs, this        |        |            |       |                                              |
|notification is made through the local ICE representative.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures to address the issues of organ donation  |        |            |       |                                              |
|by detainees.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures to notify ICE officials, deceased family |        |            |       |                                              |
|members and consulates, when a detainee dies while in service.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a policy and procedure to address the death of a detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|while in transport.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|At all ICE locations the detainee’s remains disposed of in accordance with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the provisions detailed in this standard.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In the event that neither family nor consulate claims the remains, the Field |        |            |       |                                              |
|Office schedules an indigent’s burial, consistent with local procedures.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the detainee is a U.S. military veteran, the Department of Veterans       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Affairs notified.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|An original or certified copy of a detainee’s death certificate is placed in |        |            |       |                                              |
|the subject's A-File.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility follows established policy and procedures describing when to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|contact the local coroner regarding such issues as;                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Performance of an autopsy.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Person(s) to perform the autopsy.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtaining State approved death certificates.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Local transportation of the body.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE staff follows established procedures to properly close the case of a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|deceased detainee.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section V ACTIVITIES

26    Correspondence and Other Mail
27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical  Emergencies
28    Marriage Requests
29    Recreation
30    Religious Practices
31    Telephone Access
32    Visitation
33    Voluntary Work Program

|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to correspond with their families, the community, legal representatives, government offices,   |
|and consular officials consistent with the safe and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has written policy and procedures concerning correspondence and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other mail. The rules for correspondence and other mail are posted in each   |        |            |       |                                              |
|housing or common area or provided to each detainee via a detainee handbook. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides key information in English, Spanish, and other         |        |            |       |                                              |
|languages spoken by a significant number of detainees.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incoming mail is distributed to detainees within 24 hours or 1 business day  |        |            |       |                                              |
|after it is received and inspected.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outgoing mail is delivered to the postal service within one business day of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|its entering the internal mail system (excluding weekends and holidays).     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintains a logbook-recording acceptance of priority, priority         |        |            |       |                                              |
|overnight, and certified mail delivered to the facility for a detainee.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff do not open and inspect incoming general correspondence and other mail |        |            |       |                                              |
|(including packages and publications) without the detainee present unless    |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented and authorized in writing by the Facility Administrator or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|equivalent for prevailing security reasons.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff does not read incoming general correspondence without the Facility     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrator’s prior approval.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff does not inspect incoming Special Correspondence for physical          |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband or to verify the “special” status of enclosures without the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee present.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are prohibited from reading or copying incoming and outgoing Special   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence without the detainee present.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are only authorized to inspect outgoing correspondence or other mail   |        |            |       |                                              |
|without the detainee present when there is reason to believe the item might  |        |            |       |                                              |
|present a threat to the facility's secure or orderly operation, endanger the |        |            |       |                                              |
|recipient or the public, or might facilitate criminal activity.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence to a politician or to the media is processed as Special       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence and is not read or copied.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The official authorizing the rejection of incoming mail sends written notice |        |            |       |                                              |
|to the sender and the addressee.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The official authorizing censorship or rejection of outgoing mail provides   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee with signed written notice.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintains a written record of every item removed from detainee mail.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator or designee monitors staff handling of discovered |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband and its disposition. Records are accurate and up to date.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The procedure for safeguarding cash removed from a detainee protects the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee from loss of funds and theft.  The amount of cash credited to       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee accounts is accurate.  Discrepancies are documented and             |        |            |       |                                              |
|investigated.  Standard procedure includes issuing a receipt to the detainee.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Original identity documents (for example, passports, birth certificates) are |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately removed and forwarded to ICE staff for placement in the A-files. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff provides the detainee a copy of his or her identity document(s) upon   |        |            |       |                                              |
|request.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff disposes of prohibited items found in detainee mail in accordance with |        |            |       |                                              |
|the Detention Standard on “Contraband”.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every indigent detainee has the opportunity to mail, at government expense:  |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least five pieces of special correspondence per week; Three one ounce     |        |            |       |                                              |
|letters per week: Packages deemed necessary by ICE.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system for detainees to purchase stamps and for mailing   |        |            |       |                                              |
|all Special Correspondence and a minimum of 5 pieces of general              |        |            |       |                                              |
|correspondence per week.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides writing paper, envelopes, and pencils at no cost to ICE|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU detainees have the same correspondence privileges as general population. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to outside publications.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard permits detainees to maintain ties with their families and the community by providing detainees emergency staff-escorted trips into|
|the community to visit critically ill members of the immediate family or to attend their funerals.                                                         |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Non-Medical Emergency Escorted Trips are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the      |
|detainee case.                                                                                                                                             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director considers and approves, on a case-by-case basis,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|trips to an immediate family member's:                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Funeral                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deathbed                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility recognizes as "immediate family member" a parent (including     |        |            |       |                                              |
|stepparent or foster parent), brother, sister, child, and spouse (including  |        |            |       |                                              |
|common-law spouse).                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The CDF/IGSA facility notifies ICE of all detainee requests for non-medical  |        |            |       |                                              |
|escorts.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s Deportation Officer reviews the file before forwarding a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee's request, with recommendation, to the approving official.  Each    |        |            |       |                                              |
|recommendation addresses the individual's suitability for travel, e.g., the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|kind of supervision required.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees who require overnight housing are placed in approved IGSA          |        |            |       |                                              |
|facilities.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each escort detail includes at least two officers.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee remains under constant, direct visual supervision of escorting  |        |            |       |                                              |
|staff.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escorting officers report unexpected situations to the originating facility  |        |            |       |                                              |
|as a matter of procedure and the ranking supervisor on duty has the authority|        |            |       |                                              |
|to issue instructions for completion of the trip.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escorting officers have the discretion to increase or decrease minimum       |        |            |       |                                              |
|restraints in accordance with written instruction, procedures and            |        |            |       |                                              |
|classification level of the detainee.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escort officers do not accept gifts/gratuities from a detainee, detainee's   |        |            |       |                                              |
|relative or friend for any reason.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escort officers ensure that detainees:                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Conduct themselves in a manner that does not bring discredit to ICE/DRO.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not violate federal, state, or local laws.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not purchase, possess, use, consume, or administer narcotics, other drugs,|        |            |       |                                              |
|or intoxicants.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not arrange to visit family or friends unless approved before the trip.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Make no unauthorized phone calls.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Know they are subject to search, urinalysis, breathalyzer, or comparable test|        |            |       |                                              |
|upon return to the facility.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility routinely subjects a detainee returning from an escorted trip to|        |            |       |                                              |
|a search, urinalysis, breathalyzer, etc.?                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard procedure requires the immediate return to the facility of any      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee who violates trip rules.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director is the approving official for all non-medical      |        |            |       |                                              |
|escorted trips.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility procedures comply with the following ICE Standards:                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transportation (Land Transportation                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints applied strictly in accordance with the       Use of Force        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



  |PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each marriage request from an ICE/DRO detainee receives a case-by-case review and based on internal guidelines for    |
|approval of such requests.                                                                                                                                 |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director or Facility Administrator considers detainee       |        |            |       |                                              |
|marriage requests on a case-by-case basis.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director reviews every marriage request rejected by a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Administrator or IGSA.  Rejections are documented.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|It is standard practice to require a written request for permission to marry.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The written request includes a signed statement or comparable documentation  |        |            |       |                                              |
|from the intended spouse, confirming marital intent.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator provides a written copy of his or her decision to |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee and his or her legal representative.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|When permission is denied, the Facility Administrator states the basis for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|his or her decision along with instructions on how the detainee can file an  |        |            |       |                                              |
|appeal.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator provides the detainee with a place and time to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|make wedding arrangements.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook explains the marriage request process.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs the Facility Administrator or highest ranking ICE official on-site is|        |            |       |                                              |
|the only officer authorized to approve a request to marry.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date











|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee has access to recreational and exercise programs and activities, within the constraints of safety,      |
|security, and good order.                                                                                                                                  |
|If outdoor recreation is offered check this box.  Items 20-27 should then be marked “N/A”.                                                                 |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Facility provides:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An indoor recreation program.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|An outdoor recreation program.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A recreational specialist (for facilities with more than 350 detainees)      |        |            |       |                                              |
|tailors the program activities and offerings to the detainee population.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Regular maintenance keeps recreational facilities and equipment in good      |        |            |       |                                              |
|condition.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The recreational specialist or trained equivalent supervises detainee        |        |            |       |                                              |
|recreation workers.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The recreational specialist or trainee equivalent oversees recreation        |        |            |       |                                              |
|programs for Special Management Unit and special-needs detainees.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dayrooms offer sedentary activities, e.g., board games, cards, television.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outside activities are restricted to limited-contact sports.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee has the opportunity to participate in daily recreation.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to recreation activities outside the housing units for |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least one hour daily..                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff checks all items for damage and condition when equipment is returned.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff conducts searches of recreation areas before and after use.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation areas are under constant staff supervision.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervising staff is equipped with radios.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides detainees in the SMU at least one hour of outdoor      |        |            |       |                                              |
|recreation time daily, five times per week.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary/administrative segregation receive a written       |        |            |       |                                              |
|explanation when a panel revokes his or her recreation privileges.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special programs or religious activities are available to detainees.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All volunteers have completed an orientation program and are required to sign|        |            |       |                                              |
|a waiver of liability before entering a secure portion of the facility where |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are present.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitors, relatives or friends of detainees are not allowed to serve as      |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|If yes, written procedures ensure timely review of all eligible detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the facility has no outside recreation, are detainees considered for      |        |            |       |                                              |
|transfer after six months?                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Case officers make written transfer recommendations about every six-month    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee to the Facility Administrator.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator documents all detainee-transfer decisions, whether|        |            |       |                                              |
|yes or no.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s written decision for or against an offered transfer documented|        |            |       |                                              |
|in his or her A-file.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff notifies the detainee’s legal representative of his or her decision to |        |            |       |                                              |
|accept/decline a transfer.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|If no recreation is available, the ICE Field Office routinely review transfer|        |            |       |                                              |
|eligibility for all detainees after 60 days.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Does the A-file of every detainee held more than 60 days without access to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|recreation contains either a transfer-waiver signed by the detainee or the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Administrator’s written determination of the detainee’s             |        |            |       |                                              |
|ineligibility for transfer.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s legal representative is notified of the detainee’s/Facility   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrator’s decision.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



 |PART 5 – 30. RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees of different religious beliefs are provided reasonable and equitable opportunities to participate in the    |
|practices of their respective faiths, constrained only by concerns about safety, security, the orderly operation of the facility, or extraordinary costs   |
|associated with a specific practice.                                                                                                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to engage in religious services.  When available, these|        |            |       |                                              |
|services are provided in major languages spoken within the facility.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Space is available for detainees to participate in religious services.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility allows detainees to observe the major “holy days” of their      |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious faith.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|List any exceptions.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility accommodates recognized holy-day observances by:                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Providing special meals, consistent with dietary            restrictions.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Honoring fasting requirements.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facilitating religious services.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Allowing activity restrictions.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee is allowed religious items in his/her immediate possession,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|refer to the Funds and Personal Property Standard.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Volunteer’s credentials are checked and verified before allowing             |        |            |       |                                              |
|participation in detainee programs.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Members of faiths not represented by clergy may request to present their own |        |            |       |                                              |
|services within security allowances.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the Special Management Unit may participate in religious        |        |            |       |                                              |
|practices unless otherwise documented for the safety and security of the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



 |PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees may maintain ties with their families and others in the community by providing them reasonable and equitable|
|access to telephone services.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to access to telephones during established facility    |        |            |       |                                              |
|waking hours, including access to TTY devices.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon admittance, detainees are made aware of the facility's telephone access |        |            |       |                                              |
|policy.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Notification explaining the facilities telephone policy is in the Detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Handbook.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Access rules, including updated telephone and consulate number, are posted in|        |            |       |                                              |
|housing units.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility makes a reasonable effort to provide key information to         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in languages spoken by any significant portion of the facility's   |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are provided at a minimum ratio of one telephone per 25 detainees |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility population.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are inspected daily by facility staff to ensure that they are in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|good working order.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are located a reasonable distance from televisions.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administration promptly reports out-of-order telephones to the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility’s telephone service provider.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administration monitors repair progress and takes appropriate   |        |            |       |                                              |
|measures to ensure that the required repairs are begun and completed timely. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are afforded a reasonable degree of privacy for legal phone calls. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A procedure exists to assist a detainee who is having trouble placing a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|confidential call.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides the detainees with the ability to make non-collect     |        |            |       |                                              |
|(special access) calls.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special Access calls are at no charge to the detainees.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|In facilities unable to fully meet this requirement initially because of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|limitations of its telephone service, ICE makes alternate arrangements to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|provide required access within 24 hours of a request by a detainee.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|No restrictions are placed on detainees attempting to contact attorneys and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal service providers who are on the approved “Free Legal Services List”.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special arrangements are made to allow detainees to speak by telephone with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|an immediate family member detained in another Facility.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All telephone restrictions are documented.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system for taking and delivering emergency detainee       |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephone messages.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Phone call messages are  given to detainees as soon as possible.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to return emergency phone calls as soon as possible.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are allowed phone calls relating to the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee's immigration case or other legal matters, including consultation   |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are allowed phone calls to             |        |            |       |                                              |
|consular/embassy officials.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are allowed phone calls for family     |        |            |       |                                              |
|emergencies.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in administrative segregation and protective custody are afforded  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the same telephone privileges as those in general population.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|When detainee phone calls are monitored, notification is posted by detainee  |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephones, including a recorded message on the phone system, that phone     |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls made by the detainees may be monitored. Special Access calls are not   |        |            |       |                                              |
|monitored.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The OIG phone number for reporting abuse is programmed into the detainee     |        |            |       |                                              |
|phone system.  The reviewer must verify that the number is operable.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director has assigned ICE staff to check and report on the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|serviceability of facility phones.  This is documented on a weekly basis     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date











 |PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to maintain ties through visitation with their families, the community, legal representatives, |
|and consular officials, within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There is a written visitation procedure, schedule, and hours for general     |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visitation hours are tailored to the detainee population and the demand  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for visitation.  The minimum duration for a visit is 30 minutes.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visitation schedule and rules are available to the public.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hours for all categories of visitation are posted in the visitation      |        |            |       |                                              |
|waiting area.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|A written copy of the rules regulating visitation and the hours of visitation|        |            |       |                                              |
|is available to visitors in English, Spanish, and other major languages      |        |            |       |                                              |
|spoken in the facility.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A general visitation log is maintained.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are permitted to retain authorized personal property items         |        |            |       |                                              |
|specified in the standard.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|A visitor dress code is available to the public.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitors are searched and identified according to standard requirements.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The requirement on visitation by minors is complied with.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|At facilities where there is no provision for visits by minors, ICE arranges |        |            |       |                                              |
|for visits by children and stepchildren, on request, within the first 30     |        |            |       |                                              |
|days.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|After that time, on request, ICE considers a transfer, when possible, to a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility that will allow minor visitation.  At a minimum, monthly visits are |        |            |       |                                              |
|allowed.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Anytime a visit is denied, to either a general population detainee or SMU    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, the denial is documented.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in special housing are afforded visitation.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Legal visitation is available seven (7) days a week, including holidays.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|On regular business days legal visitation hours provide for a minimum of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|eight (8) hours per day and a minimum of four hours per day on weekends and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|holidays.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|On regular business days, detainees are given the option of continuing a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|meeting with a legal representative through a scheduled meal.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Private consultation rooms are available for attorney meetings.  There is a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|mechanism for the detainee and his/her representative to exchange documents. |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written procedures governing detainee searches.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Legal representatives and assistants are subject to a non-intrusive search – |        |            |       |                                              |
|such as a pat-down search of the person or a search of the person’s          |        |            |       |                                              |
|belongings - at any time for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Per the Standard, prior to each visit, legal service providers and assistants|        |            |       |                                              |
|are identified.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The current list of pro bono legal organizations is posted in the detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|housing areas and other appropriate areas.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|SPCs and CDFs shall submit written requests for tours from domestic or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|international organizations and associated with detention issues to the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate Field Office Director for approval.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Provisions for NGO visitation as stated in the Detention Standards are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|complied with.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Law enforcement officials, requesting to visit with a detainee, are referred |        |            |       |                                              |
|to the ICE Facility Administrator for approval.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Former detainees or aliens in proceedings, requesting to visit with a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, are referred to the Facility Administrator or ICE Field Office.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard provides detainees opportunities to work and earn money while confined, subject to the number of work opportunities available and  |
|within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.  While not legally required to do so, ICE/DRO affords working detainees basic Occupational     |
|Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protections.                                                                                                       |
|Check here if ICE detainees are not authorized to work at the IGSA facility.  Mark NA on Form G-324A, page 3 and move to next section.                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a voluntary work program.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee housekeeping meets acceptable levels of neatness, cleanliness and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanitation standards.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|At IGSAs detainees are never allowed to work outside the secure perimeter.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|SPCs and CDFs detainees classified as level 1 have the opportunity to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|participate in special details outside the secure perimeter under direct     |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervision.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern selection of detainees for the Voluntary Work      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The same procedures apply for replacement workers as for “new” workers.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Where possible, physically and mentally challenged detainees participate in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the program.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility complies with work-hour requirements for detainees, not         |        |            |       |                                              |
|exceeding:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Eight hours a day.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Forty hours a week.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee volunteers ordinarily work according to a fixed schedule.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee is removed from a work detail, staff places the written        |        |            |       |                                              |
|justification for the action in the detainee’s detention file.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff, in accordance with written procedure, ensures that detainee volunteers|        |            |       |                                              |
|understand their responsibilities as workers before they join the work       |        |            |       |                                              |
|program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The voluntary work program meets:                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|OSHA standards                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|NFPA standards                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA standards                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff screens and formally certifies detainee food service           |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers;                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before the assignment begins                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|As a matter of written procedure                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees receive safety equipment/ training sufficient for the assignment   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Proper procedure is followed when an ICE detainee is injured on the job.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
 Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
      




 Reviewer’s Signature / Date


Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section VI JUSTICE

34    Detainee Handbook
35    Grievance System
36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard requires that, upon admission, every detainee be provided comprehensive written orientation materials that describe such matters as|
|the facility’s rules and sanctions, disciplinary system, mail and visiting procedures, grievance system, services, programs, and medical care, in English, |
|Spanish, and other languages and that detainees acknowledge receipt of those materials.                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a detainee handbook.  Each detainee receives a copy of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|local handbook and the ICE National Detainee Handbook.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook is written in English and translated into Spanish, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other languages spoken by significant numbers of detainees in that facility. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A procedure for requesting interpretive services for essential communication |        |            |       |                                              |
|has been developed.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation materials are read to detainees who cannot read, or they are     |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided the material via audio or video recordings.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook supplements the facility orientation video where one is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook is revised as necessary and there are procedures in place for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately communicating any revisions to staff and detainees.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is an annual review of the handbook by a designated committee or staff |        |            |       |                                              |
|member.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook address the following issues:                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal Items permitted to be retained by the detainee.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Initial issue of clothes, bedding and personal hygiene items.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to access care.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook states in clear language basic detainee                |        |            |       |                                              |
|responsibilities.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook clearly outlines the methods for classification of detainees,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|explains each level, and explains the classification appeals process.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook states when a medical examination will be conducted.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility, housing units, dayrooms, In-dorm        |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities and special management units.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes: official count times and count procedures, meal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|times, feeding procedures, procedures for medical or religious diets, smoking|        |            |       |                                              |
|policy, clothing exchange schedules and if authorized, clothes washing and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|drying procedures and expected personal hygiene practices.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes times and procedures for obtaining disposable razors  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and explains that detainees attending court will be afforded the opportunity |        |            |       |                                              |
|to shave first.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes barber hours and hair cutting restrictions.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes; the telephone policy, debit card procedures, direct  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and frees calls; locations of telephones; policy when telephone demand is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|high; and policy and procedures for emergency phone calls.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook addresses religious programming.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook states times and procedures for commissary or vending machine   |        |            |       |                                              |
|usage. (where available)                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee voluntary work program.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the library location and hours of operation and law   |        |            |       |                                              |
|library procedures and schedules.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes: attorney and regular visitation hours, policies, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures, location of the list of pro bono legal organizations; group legal|        |            |       |                                              |
|rights presentations schedule and sign up procedures.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook/supplement provides local ICE contact information.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility contraband policy.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility visiting hours and schedule and visiting |        |            |       |                                              |
|rules and regulations.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the correspondence policy and procedures.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee disciplinary policy and procedures,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|including:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited acts and severity scale sanctions.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Time limits in the Disciplinary Process.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Summary of Disciplinary Process.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The grievance section of the handbook explains all steps in the grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|process – Including:                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Informal (if used) and formal grievance    procedures;                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The appeals process;                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In CDFs procedures for filing an appeal of a grievance with ICE.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff/detainee availability to help during the grievance process.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guarantee against staff retaliation for filing/pursuing a grievance.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to file a complaint about officer misconduct with the Department of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Homeland Security.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the medical sick call procedures for general          |        |            |       |                                              |
|population and segregation.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility recreation policy including:             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outdoor recreation hours.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Indoor recreation hours.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|In dorm leisure activities.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rules for television viewing.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee dress code for daily living; and work    |        |            |       |                                              |
|assignments and the meaning of color-coded uniforms.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook specifies the rights and responsibilities of all detainees.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are required to sign for the handbook to ensure accountability.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation materials are provided to illiterate detainees either orally or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|via audio/video tapes in a language they can understand.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



 |PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights and ensures they are treated fairly by providing a procedure by which they may file formal grievances   |
|and receive timely responses.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the facility’s informal and formal grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|system.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The admissions process includes providing each new arrival with a copy of the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee handbook (or equivalent).                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The grievance section of the handbook explains all steps in the grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|process – Including:                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Informal and formal grievance    procedures;                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The appeals process and step-by-step procedures;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff/detainee availability to help during the grievance process             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guarantee against staff retaliation for filing/pursuing a grievance.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to file a complaint about officer misconduct with the Department of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Justice.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to file a emergency grievance.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures provide for the informal resolution of oral grievances    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(Not mandatory). If yes, the detainee has up to five days within which to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|make his or her concern known to a member of the staff.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to the grievance committee (or equivalent in IGSA),    |        |            |       |                                              |
|using formal procedures.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees may seek help from other detainees or facility staff when preparing|        |            |       |                                              |
|a grievance.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Illiterate, disabled, or non-English-speaking detainees receive special      |        |            |       |                                              |
|assistance when necessary.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility has written procedures for identifying and handling a time-sensitive|        |            |       |                                              |
|emergency grievance.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every member of the staff knows how to identify emergency grievances,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|including the procedures for expediting them.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff shall not harass, discipline, punish or otherwise retaliate against a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee who files a complaint or grievance.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include maintaining a Detainee Grievance Log.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If not, an alternative acceptable record keeping system is maintained.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|"Nuisance complains" are identified in the records.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|For quality control purposes, staff documents nuisance complaints received   |        |            |       |                                              |
|but not filed.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee who establishes a pattern of filing nuisance complaints or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|otherwise abusing the grievance system, the Facility Administrator may       |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorize staff to refuse to process subsequent complaints.  This authority  |        |            |       |                                              |
|may not be delegated, even to an acting Facility Administrator.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff is required to forward any grievance that includes officer misconduct  |        |            |       |                                              |
|to a higher official or, in a CDF/IGSA facility, to ICE.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Informal resolution of a written grievance is documented in the detainee’s   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention File.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff comply with the requirement to report allegations of officer misconduct|        |            |       |                                              |
|to a supervisor or higher-level official in his or her chain of command,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|and/or to ICE/DRO Office of Professional Responsibility and/or the DHS       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Inspector General.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, when a Detainee does not accept the grievance committee's  |        |            |       |                                              |
|decision, he/she files an appeal with the ICE Facility Administrator.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In all facilities written procedures cover detainee appeals and are included |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the detainee handbook                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs/CDFs, the detainee has a reasonable timeframe after the incident or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|informal-grievance outcome to file a formal grievance.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to courts, counsel, and legal materials.                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility provides a designated law library for detainee use.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The law library contains all materials listed in the “Access to Legal        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Materials” Standard, Attachment A.  The listing of materials is posted in the|        |            |       |                                              |
|law library.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|In lieu of/or in addition to the physical law library, ICE detainees have    |        |            |       |                                              |
|access to the Lexus Nexus electronic law library.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the Lexis/Nexis CD-ROM service alternative is used for the publications in|        |            |       |                                              |
|Attachment A, the facility provides detainees sufficient:                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable computers and printers, in sufficient numbers in order to provide   |        |            |       |                                              |
|access                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Photocopiers, and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supplies for both.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The library contains a sufficient number of chairs, is well lit and is       |        |            |       |                                              |
|reasonably isolated from noisy areas.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The law library is adequately equipped with typewriters, computers or both   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and has sufficient supplies for daily use by the detainees.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided with the means to save legal work in a private        |        |            |       |                                              |
|electronic format for future use.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility subscribes to updating services where applicable and legal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials requiring updates are current.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outside persons and organizations are permitted to submit published legal    |        |            |       |                                              |
|material for inclusion in the legal library.  Outside published material is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|forwarded and reviewed by the ICE prior to inclusion.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a designated ICE or facility employee who inspects, updates, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|maintain/replace legal material and equipment on a routine basis.  The       |        |            |       |                                              |
|designee properly disposes outdated supplements and replaces damaged or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|missing material promptly.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are offered a minimum 5 hours per week in the law library.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not required to forego recreation time in lieu of library      |        |            |       |                                              |
|usage.  Detainees facing a court deadline are given priority use of the law  |        |            |       |                                              |
|library.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees may request material not currently in the law library.  Each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|request is reviewed and where appropriate an acquisition request is initiate |        |            |       |                                              |
|and timely pursued.  Request for copies of court decisions are accommodated  |        |            |       |                                              |
|within 3 – 5 business days.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility permits detainees to assist other detainees, voluntarily and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|free of charge, in researching and preparing legal documents, consistent with|        |            |       |                                              |
|security.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff ensures that illiterate or non-English-speaking detainees without legal|        |            |       |                                              |
|representation receive more than access to English-language law books after  |        |            |       |                                              |
|indicating their need for help.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees may retain a reasonable amount of personal legal material in the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|general population and in the special management unit.  Stored legal         |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials are accessible within 24 hours of a written request.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees housed in Administrative Segregation and Disciplinary Segregation  |        |            |       |                                              |
|units have the same law library access as the general population, barring    |        |            |       |                                              |
|security concerns.  Detainees denied access to legal materials are documented|        |            |       |                                              |
|and reviewed routinely for lifting of sanctions.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All denials of access to the law library fully documented.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility staff informs ICE Management when a detainee or group of detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|is denied access to the law library or law materials.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees who seek judicial relief on any matter are not subjected to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|reprisals, retaliation, or penalties.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Indigent detainees are provided with free envelopes and stamps to mail       |        |            |       |                                              |
|related to legal matters.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to information presented by authorized persons and organizations for the       |
|purpose of informing them of U.S. immigration law and procedures.                                                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
| Check here if No Group Presentations were conducted within the past 12 months.  Mark Standard as Acceptable overall and continue on with next portion of  |
|worksheet.                                                                                                                                                 |
|The Field Office is responsive to requests by attorneys and accredited       |        |            |       |                                              |
|representatives for group presentations.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon receipt of concurrence by the Field Office Director, the facility or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized ICE/DRO Field Office ensures proper notification to attorneys or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accredited representatives in a timely manner.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility follows policy and procedure when rejecting or requesting       |        |            |       |                                              |
|modifications to objectionable material provided or presented by the attorney|        |            |       |                                              |
|or accredited representative.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Posters announcing presentations appear in common areas at least 48 hours in |        |            |       |                                              |
|advance and sign-up sheets are available and accessible.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to group presentations on immigration law, procedures  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and detainee options. Documentation is submitted and maintained when any     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is denied permission to attend a presentation and the reason(s) for |        |            |       |                                              |
|the denial.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the number of detainees allowed to attend a presentation is limited, the|        |            |       |                                              |
|facility allows a sufficient number of presentations so that all detainees   |        |            |       |                                              |
|signed up may attend.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in segregation, unable to attend for security reasons may request  |        |            |       |                                              |
|separate sessions with presenters.  Such requests are documented.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Interpreters are admitted when necessary to assist attorneys and other legal |        |            |       |                                              |
|representatives.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Presenters are afforded a minimum of one hour to make the presentation and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|additional time to conduct a question-and-answer session.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff permits presenters to distribute ICE/DRO-approved materials.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility permits presenters to meet with small groups of detainees to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|discuss their cases after the group presentation.  ICE/DRO or authorized     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detention staff are present but do not monitor conversations with legal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|providers.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Group presenters who have had their privileges suspended are notified in     |        |            |       |                                              |
|writing by the Field Office Director or designee, and the reasons for        |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspension are documented.  The Headquarters Office for Detention and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Removal, Field Operations and Detention management Division is notified when |        |            |       |                                              |
|a group or individual is suspended from making presentations.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility plays ICE/DRO-approved videotaped presentations on legal rights,|        |            |       |                                              |
|at regular opportunities at the request of outside organizations.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A copy of the Group Legal Rights Presentation policy, including attachments, |        |            |       |                                              |
|is available to detainees upon request                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintaine equipment for viewing approved electronically         |        |            |       |                                              |
|formatted presentations.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section VII ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT

38    Detention Files
39    News Media Interviews and Tours
40    Staff Training
41    Transfer of Detainees


|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard contributes to efficient and responsible facility management by maintaining for each detainee booked into a facility for more than |
|24 hours a file of all significant information about that person.                                                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|A Detention File is created for every new arrival whose stay will exceed 24  |        |            |       |                                              |
|hours.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee Detention File contains either originals or copies of           |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation and forms generated during the admissions process.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s Detention File also contains documents generated during the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s custody.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special requests                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any G-589s and/or I-77s or IGSA equivalent, closed-out during the detainee’s |        |            |       |                                              |
|stay                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary forms/Segregation forms                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Grievances, complaints, and the disposition(s) of same                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Detention Files are located and maintained in a secured area.  If not the|        |            |       |                                              |
|cabinets are lockable and distribution of the keys is limited to supervisors.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The Detention File remains active during the detainee’s stay.  When the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is released from the facility, staff adds copies of completed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|release documents, the original closed-out receipts for property and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|valuables, the original I-385 or equivalent and other documentation.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The officer closing the Detention File makes a notation that the file is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|complete and ready to be archived.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff makes copies and sends documents from the file when appropriately      |        |            |       |                                              |
|requested by supervisory personnel at the receiving facility or office.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Appropriate staff has access to the Detention Files and other departmental   |        |            |       |                                              |
|requests are accommodated by making a request for the file.  Each file is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly logged out and in by a representative of the responsible department.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronic record-keeping systems and data are protected from unauthorized   |        |            |       |                                              |
|access.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Unless release of information is required by statute or regulation, a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee must sign a release-of-information consent form prior to the release|        |            |       |                                              |
|of any information, and a copy of the form is maintained in the detainee’s   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention File.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronic data on individual detainees is subject to the same Privacy Act   |        |            |       |                                              |
|regulations as the contents of traditional paper Detention Files and A-files.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator or staff designate ensures that necessary         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|equipment and supplies, including copier and copier supplies are available;  |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|all equipment is maintained in good working order and that equipment has the |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|capacity to handle the volume of work.                                       |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|The Detention Operations Supervisor or equivalent can direct certain         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|documents be added to a detainee’s detention File.                           |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Archived files are purged after six years by shredding or burning.           |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Field Offices maintains detention files on detainees housed in IGSA          |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Facilities as needed.  These files are maintained for a minimum of 18 months.|        |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that the public and the media are informed of events within the facility’s areas of responsibility through interviews and  |
|tours.                                                                                                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|In the past year, have there been any interviews by reporters, other news    |        |            |       |                                              |
|media representatives, academics and others not covered by the Detention     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Visitation?                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|If so, were they permitted only by special arrangement and with approval of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the respective ICE/DRO Field Office Director?                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|If there have been any personal interviews, was the News Interview           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Authorization form (or equivalent) filed in the detainee’s A-file with a copy|        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility’s Detention File?                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Was any interview with a detainee who was the center of a controversy, or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|special interest, or high profile, did the Field Office Director consult with|        |            |       |                                              |
|Headquarters before deciding to allow the interview?                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In the past year, have any media representatives photographed or recorded any|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee in any way that would individually identify him or her?             |        |            |       |                                              |
|If so, did the media representatives obtain a signed release from the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee that is retained in the detainee’s A-file?                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|In the past year, have there been any press pools?  If so, were the          |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures in the Detention Standard followed?                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A press pool may be established when the Field Office Director and facility  |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator determine that the volume of interview requests warrants such  |        |            |       |                                              |
|action.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Did the facility administrator notify all media representatives with pending |        |            |       |                                              |
|or requested, tours, or visits that, effective immediately and until further |        |            |       |                                              |
|notice, all media representatives must comply with the press pool guidelines |        |            |       |                                              |
|established by the Field Office Director?                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Was all material generated from such a press pool made available to all news |        |            |       |                                              |
|media, without right of first publication or broadcast?                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive initial and  |
|ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts appropriate orientation, initial training, and annual  |        |            |       |                                              |
|training for all staff, contractors, and volunteers.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The amount and content of training is consistent with the duties and function|        |            |       |                                              |
|of each individual and the degree of direct supervision that individual      |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least one qualified individual with specialized training for the position |        |            |       |                                              |
|coordinates and oversees the staff development and training program.  At a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum, full-time training personnel complete a 40-hour                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|training-for-trainers course.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training is governed and guided by a training plan that is reviewed and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|approved annually by the facility administrator.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|An accurate and complete record is maintained of all formal training         |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities in:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Individual training folders,                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Other training records systems, and/or                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronic systems.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each new employee, contractor, and volunteer is provided an orientation prior|        |            |       |                                              |
|to assuming duties.  While tailored specifically for staff, contractors, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers, the orientation programs include, at a minimum:                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Working conditions                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policy manual                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Employees' rights and responsibilities                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug-free Workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health-related emergencies                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Signs of Suicide risk and precautions                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide prevention and intervention                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hunger strikes                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of Force                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Keys and Locks                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Overview of the criminal justice system                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tour of the facility                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility goals and objectives                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility organization                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff rules and regulations                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct awareness                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policies                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program overview                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation and training on detainee handbook and detainee rights.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirement of special-needs detainees.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clerical/support employees who have minimal detainee contact receive a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum of:                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Working conditions                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policy manual                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Employees' rights and responsibilities                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Overview of the criminal justice system                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tour of the facility                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility goals and objectives                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility organization                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff rules and regulations                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct awareness                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policies                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program overview                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key and Lock Control.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide risk and prevention.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Professional and support employees (including contractors) who have regular  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or daily detainee contact will receive training on the following subjects, at|        |            |       |                                              |
|a minimum:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security procedures and regulations                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of Ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health-related emergencies                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug-free workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervision of detainees                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Signs of suicide risk and hunger strike                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide precautions                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use-of-force regulations and tactics                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report writing                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee rules and regulations                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key control                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and responsibilities of detainees                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safety procedures                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency plan and procedures                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Interpersonal relations                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Social/cultural lifestyles of the detainee population                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication skills                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)/First aid                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Counseling techniques                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct awareness.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Full-time health care employees receive at least 40 hours of formal          |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation before undertaking their assignments.  At a minimum, the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation program includes:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The purpose, goals, policies and procedures for the facility and parent      |        |            |       |                                              |
|agency security and contraband regulations                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key control; appropriate conduct with detainees                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responsibilities and rights of employees                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard precautions                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Occupational exposure                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal protective equipment                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bio-hazardous waste disposal                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Overview of the detention operations.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical grievance procedures and protocol.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirment for special needs detainees.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of Ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug free workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostage situations and staff conduct if taken hostage.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security personnel (including contractors) will receive training on the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|following subjects, at a minimum:                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security procedures and regulations                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervision of detainees                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Searches of detainees, housing units, and work areas                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Signs of suicide risk, precaution, prevention and intervention.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of Ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health-related emergencies                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug-free workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide precautions                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Self-defense techniques                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use-of-force regulations and tactics                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report writing                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee rules and regulations                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key control                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and responsibilities of detainees                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safety procedures                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency plans and procedures                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Interpersonal relations                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Social/cultural lifestyles of the detainee population                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication skills                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)/first aid                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Counseling techniques                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual abuse/assault awareness                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Situation Response Teams (SRTs) receive:                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specialized training before undertaking their assignments.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility management and supervisory staff receive:                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management and Supervisory training                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Personnel authorized to use firearms receive training that covers|        |            |       |                                              |
|their use, safety, and care and constraints on their use -- before being     |        |            |       |                                              |
|assigned to a post involving their possible use.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) All personnel authorized to use firearms demonstrate competency  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in their use at least annually.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Personnel authorized to use chemical agents receive training in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the use of chemical agents and in the treatment of individuals exposed to a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|chemical agent before being assigned to a post involving their possible use. |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive orientation and annual training on the facility’s drug-free|        |            |       |                                              |
|workplace program.  Typical contents are:                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff, contractors, and volunteers prohibited from:                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using illegal drugs.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Possessing illegal drugs except in the authorized performance of official    |        |            |       |                                              |
|duties.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures to be used to ensure compliance.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Opportunities available for treatment and/or counseling for drug abuse.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Penalties for violation of the policy.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|New staff are required to acknowledge in writing that they have reviewed and |        |            |       |                                              |
|understand the facility’s drug-free workplace program, and a copy of the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|signed acknowledgement is maintained in that person’s personnel file.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained during orientation and annually thereafter, regarding  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility’s code of ethics.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Typical contents are:                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff, contractors, and volunteers prohibited from:                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using their official positions to secure privileges for themselves or others.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Engaging in activities that constitute a conflict of interest.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accepting any gift or gratuity from, or engaging in personal business        |        |            |       |                                              |
|transactions with a detainee or an detainee's immediate family.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Acceptable behavior in the areas of campaigning, lobbying or political       |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|New staff are required to acknowledge in writing that they have reviewed and |        |            |       |                                              |
|understand facility work rules, ethics, regulations, conditions of           |        |            |       |                                              |
|employment, and related documents, and a copy of the signed acknowledgement  |        |            |       |                                              |
|is maintained in that person’s personnel file.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least|        |            |       |                                              |
|annually to respond to health-related emergencies within four minutes.  The  |        |            |       |                                              |
|training is provided by a responsible medical authority in cooperation with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility administrator and includes:                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing of signs of potential health emergencies and the required        |        |            |       |                                              |
|responses.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administering first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtaining emergency medical assistance through the facility plan and its     |        |            |       |                                              |
|required procedures.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing signs and symptoms of mental illness, suicide risk, retardation, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and chemical dependency.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s established plan and procedures for providing emergency       |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical care including, when required, the safe and secure transfer of       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees for appropriate hospital or other medical services, including by   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ambulance when indicated.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least annually on|        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility’s Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention Program, |        |            |       |                                              |
|to include:                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Understanding that sexual abuse or assault is never an acceptable consequence|        |            |       |                                              |
|of detention.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing housing or other situations where sexual abuse or assault may    |        |            |       |                                              |
|occur.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing the physical, behavioral, and emotional signs of sexual abuse or |        |            |       |                                              |
|assault and ways to prevent such occurrences.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Knowing how to report knowledge or suspicion of sexual abuse or assault and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|make intervention referrals in the facility’s program.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least|        |            |       |                                              |
|annually on the facility’s Suicide Prevention and Intervention Program, to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|include:                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Identifying the warning signs and symptoms of impending suicidal behavior,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors of suicidal behavior,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed detainees,                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication between correctional and health care personnel,                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Referral procedures,                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level procedures, and                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have attempted suicide.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained during orientation and annually to recognize the signs |        |            |       |                                              |
|of a hunger strike and on the procedures for referral for medical assessment.|        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained in proper procedures for the care and handling of keys.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation training shall be accomplished before staff are issued keys, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|key control shall be among the topics covered in annual training.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, such training is done by the Security Officer or Key Control     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officer.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Through ongoing (at least annual) training, all detention facility staff are |        |            |       |                                              |
|made aware of their responsibilities to control situations involving         |        |            |       |                                              |
|aggressive detainees.  At a minimum, training shall include:                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The requirements of this Detention Standard                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The use of force continuum                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication techniques                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dealing with the mentally ill                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Confrontation-avoidance techniques                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Approved methods of self-defense                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Force cell-move techniques                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communicable diseases, particularly precautions to be taken for use of force |        |            |       |                                              |
|Application of restraints (progressive and hard)                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting procedures.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Employees are encouraged to continue their education and professional        |        |            |       |                                              |
|development through incentives such as salary enhancement, reimbursement of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|costs, and administrative leave.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard ensures that transfers of detainees from one facility to another are professionally and responsibly managed in regard to           |
|notifications, detainee records, safety and security, and protection of detainee funds and personal property.                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|When a detainee is represented by legal counsel or a legal representative,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and a G-28 has been filed, the representative of record is notified by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s Deportation Officer within 24 hours of transfer.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The notification is recorded in the detainee’s file                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the A-File is not available, notification is noted within ENFORCE.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Notification includes the reason for the transfer and the location of the new|        |            |       |                                              |
|facility,                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The deportation officer is allowed discretion regarding the timing of the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|notification when extenuating circumstances are involved.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The attorney and detainee are notified that it is their responsibility to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|notify family members regarding a transfer.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility policy mandates that:                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Times and transfer plans are never discussed with the detainee prior to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|transfer.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee is not notified of the transfer until immediately prior to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|departing the facility.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee is not permitted to make any phone calls or have contact with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|any detainee in the general population.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee is provided with a completed Detainee Transfer Notification     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Form.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Form G-391 or equivalent authorizing the removal of a detainee from a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility is used.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|For medical transfers:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Division of Immigration Health Services (DIHS) Medical Director or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|designee approves the transfer.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical transfers are coordinated through the local ICE/DRO office.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A medical transfer summary is completed and accompanies the detainee.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee is issued a minimum of 7 days worth of prescription medications.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are transferred with a completed transfer summary sheet in a sealed|        |            |       |                                              |
|envelope with the detainee’s name and A-number and the envelope is marked    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Confidential.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|For medical transfers, transporting officers receive instructions regarding  |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical issues.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee’s funds, valuables and property are returned and transferred with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee to his or her new location.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transfer and documentary procedures outlined in Section C and D are followed.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Indigent detainees unable to make a telephone call at their new location are |        |            |       |                                              |
|able to make a telephone call at the governments expense within 12 hours of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrivial.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meals are provided when transfers occur during normally schedule meal times. |        |            |       |                                              |
|An A-File or work folder accompanies the detainee when transferred to a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|different Field Office or sub-office.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|A-Files are forwarded to the receiving office via overnight mail no later    |        |            |       |                                              |
|than one business day following the transfer.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




                                                  Condition of Confinement Inspection Worksheet
                                      (This document must be attached to each G-324B Detention Review Form)
                                    This Form is to be used for Inspections of Facilities Used Under 72 Hours
                                                                      [pic]

                                                                      [pic]
                                                  Performance-Based National Detention Standards
                                                Inspection Worksheet for Under 72 Hour Facilities

      Intergovernmental Service Agreement (IGSA)
      ICE Service Processing Center (SPC)
      ICE Contract Detention Facility (CDF)
|Name                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Address (Street and Name)                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|City, State and Zip Code                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|County                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and Title of Chief Executive Officer (Warden/OIC/Superintendent/Facility Administrator))                                              |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and title of Reviewer-In-Charge                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Date[s] of Review                                                                                                                          |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Type of Review                                                                                                                             |
|Headquarters  Operational Special Assessment Other                                                                                         |


                                                                Table of Contents


PART 1      SAFETY
      1     Emergency Plans
      2     Environmental Health and Safety
      3     Transportation (By Land)

PART 2      SECURITY
      4     Admission and Release
      5     Classification System
      6     Contraband
      7     Facility Security and Control
      8     Funds and Personal Property
      9     Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
      10    Key and Lock Control
      11    Population Counts
      12    Post Orders
      13    Searches of Detainees
      14    Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
      15    Special Management Units
      16    Staff-Detainee Communication
      17    Tool Control
      18    Use of Force and Restraints

PART 3      ORDER
      19    Disciplinary System

PART 4      CARE
      20    Food Service
      21    Hunger Strikes
      22    Medical Care
      23    Personal Hygiene
      24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
      25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

PART 5      ACTIVITIES
      26    Correspondence and Other Mail
      27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
      28    Marriage Requests
      29    Recreation
      30    Religious Practices
      31    Telephone Access
      32    Visitation
      33    Voluntary Work Program

PART 6      JUSTICE
      34    Detainee Handbook
      35    Grievance System
      36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
      37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

PART 7      ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
      38    Detention Files
      39    News Media Interviews and Tours
      40    Staff Training
      41    Transfer of Detainees
Introduction and Overview to the G324B Under 72 Hour Facility Detention Inspection Worksheets

What is “Performance-Based”?

Unlike “policy and procedures” that focus solely on what is to be done, performance-based policy starts with a focus on the results or outcomes
the required procedures are expected to accomplish.  Each National Detention Standard has been revised to produce Expected Outcomes that are
clearly stated. Each standard reflects the overall mission and purpose of the agency and contributes to the goal that has been articulated.

Expected Practices found in the National Detention Standards (NDS) represent what is to be done to accomplish the Expected Outcomes that will
meet the Purpose and Scope of the Detention Standard.

Outcome Measures (key indicators) are what is looked at to know whether (or how well) what a facility is accomplishing contributes to the
outcomes expected.

The original 38 NDS have been revised into 41 performance-based standards. During the development four new standards were added to include: News
Media, Searches of Detainees, Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention and Staff Training.  The two standards on Special Management
Units were condensed into one standard.  The new performance-based standards have incorporated American Correctional Association (ACA) Adult
Local Detention Facility standards, which are the industry benchmark.

Worksheet Overview

There are two sets of Detention Review Worksheets that are used to assess compliance with the National Detention Standards (NDS). Both sets of
these worksheets are derived from the policy and procedures set forth in the NDS. The G324A is for use with the facilities that house detainees
for over 72 hours, while the G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees for under 72 hours.

The G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees under 72 hours and it does not contain as many requirements as the G324A on the
following NDS: Correspondence and Other Mail, Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies, Law Libraries and Legal Material, Legal Rights Group
Presentations, Marriage Requests, Recreation, and Voluntary Work Program. These standards were not included in the prior version of the G324B
due to the short term nature of the detention in facilities that are used for 72 hours or less. These sections are now included in the G324B but
only to the extent that facilities seek applicability and are not mandated by ICE. For example, voluntary work programs are not required, but if
detainees work, compliance with the NDS is required.

Mandatory components in several of the standards have been indicated in the worksheets. Mandatory items are those which must be met in order  for
the facility to receive a Meets Standards rating for that standard. These mandatory components typically represent life safety  issues.   A  Does
Not Meet Standards on one of these components is very serious.  Failing to meet one of the mandatory components means that the  overall  facility
review rating will be Does Not Meet Standards. There are no mandatory components in the G324B.



The Outcome Measures Worksheet section is completely new for the performance-based NDS. The Outcome Measures  Worksheets  will  be  completed  by
facility staff prior to arrival of the review team. Ideally, this information will be maintained on a continuous basis by the  facility  as  part
of a key indicators database to provide a perpetual record for monitoring  facility  performance.  The  Reviewer  in  Charge  (RIC)  will  review
facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and trends.



Worksheet Completion

Reviewers are required to complete each item of each section of the G324A and G324B Detention Review Worksheets.  Worksheets  are  in  a  uniform
format with 5 columns  with NDS purpose and scope cited at the top of the worksheet.  Column 1 contains the NDS  standard  assessment  component.
Columns 2-4 are provided for the ratings assigned to each component that is assessed. While there is a column titled N/A or not  applicable,  the
N/A rating should be used rarely and only when applicable. The remarks section is provided for reviewers to include details on each  rating  that
may raise a question such as the “Does Not Meet Standard” or “N/A” ratings.

A Remarks section is also provided at the end of the outcome measures section for summary comments and analysis of  outcome  measures  data.  The
information included in the worksheet components remarks sections and in the final summary remarks section should be considered for inclusion  in
the reviewer report that summarizes the overall facility review process.



Outcome Measures Completion

The Outcome Measures Worksheets will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the  review  team.  Ideally,  this  information  will  be
maintained on a continuous basis by the facility as part of a key indicators database to provide  a  perpetual  record  for  monitoring  facility
performance.  Data should be verified as accurate by the facility before including it in the  database.  Outcome  measure  data  is  intended  to
assess facility issues related to the NDS, so care should be taken to focus on ICE related issues. For example when computing the  average  daily
population (ADP), assess and provide information on the ICE population.

The RIC will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to  describe  facility  performance  and  trends.  In  a  few
instances outcome measures are not provided for some the NDS because after careful consideration of the standard the assessment process has  been
determined to be more process oriented in nature.





Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 1 SAFETY

1      Emergency Plans
2      Environmental Health and Safety
3      Transportation (By Land)

|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively respond to  |
|any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|No Detainee or detainee groups exercise control or        authority over     |        |            |       |                                              |
|other detainees.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are protected from:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal abuse                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal injury                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disease                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Property damage                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Harassment from other detainees                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive training in the emergency plans              during their  |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation training as well as during             their annual training.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains a list of translator services in          the event   |        |            |       |                                              |
|one is needed during a hostage crisis.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency Plans include a procedure for handling detainees with special needs|        |            |       |                                              |
|during an emergency   or evacuation.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover:                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Work/Food Strike                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental Hazard                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE-wide Lockdown                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff Work Stoppage                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disturbances                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escapes                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bomb Threats                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adverse Weather                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Internal Searches                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Evacuation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Transportation System Plan                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostages (Internal)                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Civil Disturbances                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors from injury and illness by maintaining high facility standards of           |
|cleanliness and sanitation, safe work practices, and control of hazardous substances and equipment.                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Facility appears clean and well maintained.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system for insuring safe use, storing, issuing, and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|maintaining inventories of flammable, toxic and hazardous materials.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant inventories are maintained for all     flammable, toxic, and caustic|        |            |       |                                              |
|substances used / stored in each section of the facility.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The manufacturer’s Material Safety Data Sheet               (MSDS) file is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|up-to-date for every hazardous                  substance used.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The files list all storage areas, and include a plant           diagram and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|legend.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDSs and other information in the files are            available to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|personnel managing the facility’s safety        program.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All personnel using flammable, toxic, and/or caustic        substances follow|        |            |       |                                              |
|the prescribed procedures:                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Wear personal protective equipment.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report hazards and spills to the designated official.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDSs are readily accessible to staff and                detainees in the|        |            |       |                                              |
|work areas.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hazardous materials are always issued under proper supervision.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Quantities are limited.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff always supervises detainees using these                substances.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All "flammable” and “combustible" materials (liquid        and aerosol) are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|stored and used according to label       recommendations.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility conforms to applicable federal, state, and/or local fire safety |        |            |       |                                              |
|codes. The authority having jurisdiction documents compliance.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has an approved fire prevention, control, and evacuation plan.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts the fire and safety inspections.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire drills are conducted and documented quarterly.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures regulate the handling and                 disposal of used|        |            |       |                                              |
|needles and other sharp objects.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard cleaning practices include:                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using specified equipment; cleansers; disinfectants        and detergents.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|An established schedule of cleaning and follow-up          inspections.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A licensed/certified/trained pest-control professional      inspects for     |        |            |       |                                              |
|rodents, insects, and vermin.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least monthly.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The pest-control program includes preventive                 spraying for    |        |            |       |                                              |
|indigenous insects.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drinking water and wastewater is routinely tested            according to a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|fixed schedule.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency power generators are tested at least             every two weeks.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Other emergency systems and equipment receive          testing at least      |        |            |       |                                              |
|quarterly.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Testing is followed-up with timely corrective actions        (repairs and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|replacements).                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard prevents harm to the general public, detainees, and staff by ensuring that vehicles are properly equipped, maintained, and operated|
|and that detainees are transported in a secure, safe and humane manner, under the supervision of trained and experienced staff.                            |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Transportation are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the detainee case.             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers comply with applicable local,        state, and federal|        |            |       |                                              |
|motor vehicle laws and regulations.  Records support this finding of         |        |            |       |                                              |
|compliance.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every transporting officer required to drive a                 commercial    |        |            |       |                                              |
|size vehicle has a valid Commercial Driver's   License (CDL) issued by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|state of employment.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervisors maintain records for each vehicle              operator.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating annual inspection of vehicles and annual inspection |        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with state statutes, is available for review.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating safety repairs are completed immediately and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicles are not used until they have been repaired and inspected is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for review.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers use a checklist during every vehicle inspection.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers report deficiencies affecting operability.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deficiencies are corrected before the vehicle goes      back into service.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All transport officers will maintain a driving log                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Limit driving time to 10 hours in any 15 hour period      when transporting  |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive only after eight consecutive off-duty hours.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not receive transportation assignments after having been on duty, in any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity, for 15 hours.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive a 50-hour maximum in a given work week; a 70- hour maximum during eight|        |            |       |                                              |
|consecutive days.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|During emergency conditions (including bad weather), officers may drive as   |        |            |       |                                              |
|long as necessary and safe to     reach a safe area(exceeding the 10-hour    |        |            |       |                                              |
|limit.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two officers with valid Commercial Drivers Licenses,   (CDL’s) required in   |        |            |       |                                              |
|any vehicle transporting detainees.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|When buses travel in tandem with detainees, there two qualified officers per |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|An unaccompanied driver transports an empty vehicle.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The transporting officer inspects the vehicle before the start of each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detail.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Positive identification of all detainees being transported is confirmed.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are searched immediately prior to            boarding the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle by staff controlling the bus or        vehicle.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility ensures that the number of detainees         transported does   |        |            |       |                                              |
|not exceed the vehicle                       manufacturer’s occupancy level. |        |            |       |                                              |
|All ICE uniformed officers wear their ICE issued body armor in accordance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the ICE Body Armor policy    when transporting detainees.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew conducts a visual count once all        passengers are on   |        |            |       |                                              |
|board and seated.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional visual counts are made whenever the           vehicle makes a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|scheduled or unscheduled stop.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policies and procedures are in place addressing the    use of restraining    |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment on transportation             vehicles.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers ensure that no one contacts the detainees.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|One officer remains in the vehicle at all times when      detainees are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|present.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meals are provided during long distance transfers.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The meals meet the minimum dietary standards, as     identified by dieticians|        |            |       |                                              |
|utilized by the ICE.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew inspects all Food Service meals before accepting delivery   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(food wrapping, portions,      quality, quantity, thermos-transport          |        |            |       |                                              |
|containers, etc.).                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before accepting the meals, the vehicle crew raises     and resolves         |        |            |       |                                              |
|questions, concerns, or discrepancies     with the Food Service              |        |            |       |                                              |
|representative.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Basins, latrines, and drinking-water                               containers|        |            |       |                                              |
|/ dispensers are cleaned and sanitized on a fixed schedule.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicles have:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two-way radios.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cellular telephones.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment boxes stocked in accordance with the Use       of Force Standard.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment appropriate and necessary for transporting detainees with physical |        |            |       |                                              |
|disabilities.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicles are clean and sanitary at all times.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal property of a detainee transferring to another        facility:     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inventoried.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inspected.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accompanies the detainee.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following contingencies are included in the written        procedures for|        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle crews:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attack                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escape                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostage-taking                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee sickness                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee death                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle fire                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Riot                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Traffic accident                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Mechanical problems                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Natural disasters                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Severe weather                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Passenger list is not exclusively men or   women or             minors       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |


                                     Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard       N/A         Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 2 SECURITY
4      Admission and Release
5       Classification System
6       Contraband
7       Facility Security and Control
8       Funds and Personal Property
9       Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
10    Key and Lock Control
11     Population Counts
12     Post Orders
13     Searches of Detainees
14     Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
15     Special Management Units
16     Staff-Detainee Communication
17     Tool Control
18     Use of Force and Restraints


|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors by ensuring secure and orderly operations when detainees are |
|admitted to or released from a facility.                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Admissions processing includes an orientation of the facility.  The          |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation includes; Unacceptable         activities and behavior, and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|corresponding sanctions. How to contact ICE. The availability of pro bono    |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal services, and how to pursue such services. Schedule of programs,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|services, daily activities, including visitation, telephone usage, mail      |        |            |       |                                              |
|service, religious programs, count procedures, access to and use of the law  |        |            |       |                                              |
|library and the general library; sick-call procedures, etc., and the detainee|        |            |       |                                              |
|handbook.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical screenings are performed by medical staff   or persons who have      |        |            |       |                                              |
|received specialized training for the purpose of conducting an initial health|        |            |       |                                              |
|screening.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When available, accompanying documentation is     used to identify and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|classify each new arrival.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new arrivals are searched in accordance with the “Detainee Search”       |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard.  An officer of the same sex as the detainee conducts the search and|        |            |       |                                              |
|the      search is conducted in an area that affords as much privacy as      |        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff shall not routinely strip search a detainee as     part of the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|admission process, unless there is           reasonable belief or suspicion  |        |            |       |                                              |
|that the individual may be concealing a weapon or other contraband.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The “Contraband” standard governs all personal       property searches.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|IGSAs use a similar contraband standard.  Staff prepare a complete inventory |        |            |       |                                              |
|of each detainee’s possessions.  The detainee receives a copy.  All identity |        |            |       |                                              |
|documents are inventoried and given to ICE/DRO staff for placement in the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|A-file. All funds and valuables are safeguarded in accordance with ICE       |        |            |       |                                              |
|policy.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes Form I-387 or similar form for CDFs and IGSAs for every lost |        |            |       |                                              |
|or missing property claim.   Facilities forward all I-387 claims to ICE.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are issued appropriate and sufficient        clothing and bedding  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for the climatic conditions.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|All releases are coordinated with the ICE office of     jurisdiction.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system to maintain accurate           records and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation for admission,                orientation, and release.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All orientation material shall be provided in English,  Spanish, and the most|        |            |       |                                              |
|prevalent language(s) spoken by detainees at the facility.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The admissions process is conducted in a language or manner the detainee     |        |            |       |                                              |
|understands.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date






































|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm, and contributes to orderly facility           |
|operations, by requiring a formal classification process for managing and separating detainees that is based on verifiable and documented data.            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility uses an objective classification system or similar system for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|classifying detainees.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility classification system includes:                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classifying detainees upon arrival.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Separating individuals who cannot be classified upon arrival from the general|        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The first-line supervisor or designated classification  specialist reviewing |        |            |       |                                              |
|every classification decision.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing assignments are based on classification-     level.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility will have a visual system (uniform, ID       etc.) for          |        |            |       |                                              |
|identifying detainees by level of                     classification.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date






















|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by identifying, detecting, controlling, and properly    |
|disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility follows a written procedure for handling illegal contraband.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff inventories, holds, and reports it when necessary to the proper        |        |            |       |                                              |
|authority for action/possible seizure.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon admittance, detainees receive notification of contraband rules and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures in the Detainee Handbook                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 7. FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, staff, contractors, volunteers, and detainees from harm by ensuring that facility security is maintained   |
|and that events that pose a risk of harm are prevented.                                                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator or assistant administrator    and department heads|        |            |       |                                              |
|visit living quarters and activity areas weekly.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least one male and one female staff are on duty    where both males and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|females are housed.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Essential posts and positions are filled with qualified  personnel.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy restricts staff access to the Control Center.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees do not have access to the Control Center.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The front-entrance officer checks the ID of everyone  entering or exiting the|        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All visits officially recorded in a visitor logbook or       electronically  |        |            |       |                                              |
|recorded.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers thoroughly search each vehicle entering and leaving the facility.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a comprehensive security inspection  policy.  The policy    |        |            |       |                                              |
|specifies:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Posts to be inspected                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Required inspection forms                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Frequency of inspections                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guidelines for checking security features                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures for reporting weak spots, in-                   consistencies, and|        |            |       |                                              |
|other areas needing improvement                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every officer is required to conduct a security check  of his/her assigned   |        |            |       |                                              |
|area.  The results are                  documented.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation of security inspections is kept on file.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An officer is assigned responsibility for ensuring the security inspection   |        |            |       |                                              |
|process covers all areas of the    facility.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees’ personal property is safeguarded and controlled, specifically including funds, valuables, baggage and other|
|personnel property, and that contraband does not enter a detention facility.                                                                               |
|Standard NA:  (IGSA ONLY) Check this box if all ICE detainee Funds, Valuables and Property are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in       |
|control of the detainee case.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainee funds and valuables are properly                separated and stored|        |            |       |                                              |
|away.  Detainee funds and     valuables are accessible to designated         |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor(s) only.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees’ large valuables are secured in a location accessible to designated|        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor(s) or processing staff only.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches and itemizes the personal property of detainees, including    |        |            |       |                                              |
|funds and valuables, using a     personal property inventory form that meets |        |            |       |                                              |
|the ICE standard, in the presence of the detainee unless       otherwise     |        |            |       |                                              |
|instructed by the facility administrator.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff forwards an arriving detainee’s medicine to the medical staff.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches arriving detainees and their personal property for contraband.|        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a written policy for returning forgotten          property to       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees and staff follows procedures.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility disposes of abandoned property in          accordance with      |        |            |       |                                              |
|written procedures. Written             procedure requires the prompt        |        |            |       |                                              |
|forwarding of             abandoned property to ICE.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard operating procedure shall include obtaining a forwarding address    |        |            |       |                                              |
|from every detainee who has personal property that could be lost or forgotten|        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility after the detainee’s release, transfer, or removal.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date





|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures the safety, security, and comfort of detainees temporarily held in Hold Rooms pending further processing.  The maximum     |
|aggregate time an individual may be confined in a facility’s Hold Room is 12 hours.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The hold room is situated in a location within the       secure perimeter.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms are clean, in good repair, well          ventilated, well lit,|        |            |       |                                              |
|and all activating switches located outside the room.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms contain sufficient seating for the       number of detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|held.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|No bunks/cots/beds or other related make shift         sleeping apparatuses  |        |            |       |                                              |
|are permitted inside hold        rooms.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hold room walls and ceilings are escape and tamper resistant.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not held in hold rooms for more than  12 hours.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Male and females are segregated from each other at all times.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided with basic personal hygiene items such as water, soap,|        |            |       |                                              |
|toilet paper, cups for       water, feminine hygiene items, diapers and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|wipes.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are given a pat down search for           weapons or contraband|        |            |       |                                              |
|before being placed in the    room.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
| When the last detainee has been removed , the hold   room is inspected for  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the following:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cleaning.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Evidence of tampering with doors, locks, windows,   grills, plumbing or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|electrical fixtures is reported to the shift supervisor for corrective action|        |            |       |                                              |
|or repair.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a written evacuation plan.There is a designated officer to remove   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees from the hold rooms in case of fire and/or building evacuation, or |        |            |       |                                              |
|other emergency.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Family units, persons of advanced age (over 70),     females with children,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and unaccompanied juvenile  detainees (under the age of 18) are not placed in|        |            |       |                                              |
|hold rooms.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Minors (under 18) are confined apart from adults,     except for immediate   |        |            |       |                                              |
|relatives or guardians.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detention facility maintains a detention log        (manually or by     |        |            |       |                                              |
|computer) for each detainee placed in a hold room cell.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers provide a meal to any detainee detained      more than six hours.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Juveniles, babies and pregnant women have access to snacks, milk or juice.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meal are served to juveniles regardless of time in     custody               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The maximum occupancy for the hold room will be   posted.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before placing a detainee in a room, an officer shall observe each individual|        |            |       |                                              |
|to screen for obvious mental or physical problems.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff do not permit detainees to smoke in a hold      room.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers closely supervise hold rooms through direct supervision, which      |        |            |       |                                              |
|involves:                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Continuous auditory monitoring, even when the hold room is not in the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|officer’s direct line of sight, and                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visual monitoring at irregular intervals at least every 15 minutes, each time|        |            |       |                                              |
|recording in the detention log, the time and officer's printed name and any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unusual behavior or complaints under "Comments.”                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant surveillance of any detainee exhibiting       signs of hostility,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|depression, or similar behaviors.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |


                                     Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A           Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard maintains facility safety and security by requiring that keys and locks be properly controlled and maintained.                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a key and lock control program.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility policies and procedures address the issue of compromised keys and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|locks.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Padlocks and/or chains are not used on cell doors.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures in place to ensure that key rings are:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Identifiable                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Numbers of keys on the ring are cited?                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Keys cannot be removed from issued key rings                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency keys are available for all areas of the     facility.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Authorization is necessary to issue any restricted      key.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Individual gun lockers are provided.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|They are located in an area that permits constant     officer observation.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|In an area that does not allow detainee or public       access.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff members are trained and held responsible   for adhering to proper  |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures for the handling of keys.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Issued keys are returned immediately in the event an employee inadvertently  |        |            |       |                                              |
|carries a key ring home.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a key or key ring is lost, misplaced, or not       accounted for, the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor is immediately notified.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not permitted to handle keys assigned to staff.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard protects the community from harm and enhances facility security, safety, and good order by requiring that each facility have an    |
|ongoing, effective system of population counts and detainee accountability.                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Staff conduct a formal count at least once each shift.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Activities cease or are strictly controlled while a         formal count is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|being conducted.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Formal counts in all units take place simultaneously.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers do not allow detainee participation in the      count.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers positively identify each detainee before        counting him/her as |        |            |       |                                              |
|present.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A system for counting each detainee, including those who are outside of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|housing unit has been  developed.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover informal and emergency   counts.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The control officer (or other designated position)       maintains an        |        |            |       |                                              |
|“out-count” record of all detainees        temporarily out of the facility.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers and any other staff with                    responsibilities for    |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducting counts are provided    adequate initial and periodic training in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|count             procedures, and that training is documented in each        |        |            |       |                                              |
|person’s training folder.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by ensuring that each officer assigned to a security    |
|post knows the procedures, duties, and responsibilities of that post.                                                                                      |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Every fixed post has a set of post orders.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One individual or department is responsible for         keeping all post     |        |            |       |                                              |
|orders current with revisions that      take place between reviews.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Review, updating, and reissuing of post orders          occurs regularly and |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least annually.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures keep post orders and logbooks secure   from detainees at all      |        |            |       |                                              |
|times.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Anyone assigned to an armed post qualifies with the post weapons before      |        |            |       |                                              |
|assuming post duty.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Post orders for armed posts provide instructions for  escape attempts.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The post orders for housing units track the daily        event schedule.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The post orders include instructions on maintaining  logbooks.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by detecting, controlling, and properly disposing of    |
|contraband.                                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Written facility policy and procedures governing        searches of housing  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and work areas and of               detainees.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided a receipt for any property      confiscated during a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|search.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written facility policy and procedures require staff to employ the least     |        |            |       |                                              |
|intrusive method of body search     practicable, as indicated by the type of |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband    and the method of suspected introduction or                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|concealment.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written facility policy and procedures require staff to avoid unnecessary    |        |            |       |                                              |
|force during searches and to       preserve the dignity of the detainee being|        |            |       |                                              |
|searched, to the extent practicable.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Strip Searches are conducted only when there is      reasonable belief or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspicion that contraband may  be concealed on the person, or a good         |        |            |       |                                              |
|opportunity   for concealment has occurred, and, where required, when        |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly authorized by a supervisor and           documented on a G-1025 or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|equivalent.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Body cavity searches are conducted by designated   health personnel only when|        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized by the facility administrator (or acting administrator) on the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|basis of reasonable belief or suspicion that contraband may be concealed in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or on the detainee’s person.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Canines are not used in the presence of detainees.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2– 14. SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard requires that facilities that house ICE/DRO detainees affirmatively act to prevent sexual abuse and assaults on detainees, provide |
|prompt and effective intervention and treatment for victims of sexual abuse and assault, and control, discipline, and prosecute the perpetrators of sexual |
|abuse and assault.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a Sexual Abuse and Assault              Prevention and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intervention Program.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained, during orientation and in annual refresher training,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the prevention and intervention areas required by the Detention Standard. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the program in the facility orientation and the |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee handbook (or equivalent).                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Sexual Assault Awareness Notice is posted on  all housing unit bulletin  |        |            |       |                                              |
|boards.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All records associated with claims of sexual abuse or assault are maintained,|        |            |       |                                              |
|and such incidents are     specifically logged and tracked by a designated   |        |            |       |                                              |
|staff coordinator.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                       |


                                      Acceptable       Deficient              At-Risk          Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm by segregating certain detainees from the general  |
|population in Special Management Units (SMUs) with an Administrative Segregation section for detainees segregated for administrative reasons and a         |
|Disciplinary Segregation section for detainees segregated for disciplinary reasons.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has policy/procedure for special              management units. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in protective custody status in  Administrative         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Segregation only when there is         documentation that it is warranted and|        |            |       |                                              |
|that no         reasonable alternatives are available. Each facility  will   |        |            |       |                                              |
|develop procedures to consider continued         placement in protective     |        |            |       |                                              |
|custody as well as provisions for release from protective custody when       |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation only after a finding by a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|high level disciplinary hearing      panel or disciplinary hearing officer   |        |            |       |                                              |
|that the detainee is guilty of a high level prohibited act or rule violation.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Health care personnel are immediately informed when a detainee is admitted to|        |            |       |                                              |
|an SMU to provide assessment and review as indicated by health care protocols|        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures to control    and secure SMU         |        |            |       |                                              |
|entrances, contraband, tools, and  food carts, in accordance with the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention              Standard on Facility Security and Control.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The number of detainees confined to each cell or     room does not exceed the|        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity for which it was  designed.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cells and rooms are well ventilated, adequately lit,    appropriately heated |        |            |       |                                              |
|and maintained in a sanitary     condition at all times.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Permanent housing logs are maintained in SMUs to record pertinent information|        |            |       |                                              |
|on detainees upon         admission to and release from the unit, and in     |        |            |       |                                              |
|which supervisory staff and other officials record their visits to the unit. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A permanent log is maintained in each SMU to         record all activities   |        |            |       |                                              |
|concerning SMU detainees          (meals served, recreation, visitors, etc.).|        |            |       |                                              |
|A Special Management Housing Unit Record is         maintained on each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee in an SMU.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator (or designee) visits each     SMU daily.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A health care provider visits every detainee in an      SMU at least three   |        |            |       |                                              |
|times a week, and detainees are provided any medications prescribed for them.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are provided three nutritionally    adequate meals per day,|        |            |       |                                              |
|ordinarily from the general population menu.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs may shave and shower three      times weekly and receive   |        |            |       |                                              |
|other basic services           (laundry, hair care, barbering, clothing,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding,       linen) on the same basis as the general population.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU may write and receive letters   the same as the general  |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU ordinarily retain visiting            privileges.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in SMUs are not denied legal    visitation.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are allowed visits by members of the clergy, upon request, |        |            |       |                                              |
|unless it is determined a    visit presents a risk to safety, security, or   |        |            |       |                                              |
|orderly       operations.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs have access to reading               materials, including  |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious materials                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Administrative Segregation or            Disciplinary           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Segregation have the same law library access as the general population,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|unless compelling and documented security concerns require                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|limitations.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation for detainees in the SMU is separate       from the general       |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the SMU are offered at least one hour  of recreation per day,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|scheduled at a reasonable      time, at least five days per week.  Where     |        |            |       |                                              |
|cover is     not provided to mitigate inclement weather,                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are provided weather-appropriate              equipment and attire.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in Administrative Segregation have telephone access    |        |            |       |                                              |
|similar to detainees in the general population, in a manner consistent with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the special security and safety requirements of an SMU.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Disciplinary Segregation may be        restricted from using    |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephones to make general     calls as part of the disciplinary process;    |        |            |       |                                              |
|however,     ordinarily, they are permitted to make direct and/or   free and |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal calls as described in the Detention      Standard on Telephone Access, |        |            |       |                                              |
|except for              compelling and documented reasons of safety,         |        |            |       |                                              |
|security, and good order.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility will develop procedures to allow             detainees to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|retain religious items within their            possession consistent with    |        |            |       |                                              |
|good security practices   (e.g., religious wearing apparel, religious        |        |            |       |                                              |
|headwear, prayer rugs, and beads, prayer rocks, and                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|medalions).                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephone access for legal calls will be provided,      including calls to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|attorneys, other legal                       representatives, courts,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|government offices               (including the Office of the Inspector      |        |            |       |                                              |
|General, Office for Civil rights, and Civil Liberties, DHS Joint Intake      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Center, and DHS Office of Internal Audit), and          embassies or         |        |            |       |                                              |
|consulates, according to the facility     schedule.  Any denial of telephone |        |            |       |                                              |
|access will be      documented.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard enhances security, safety, and orderly facility operations by encouraging and requiring informal direct and written contact among  |
|staff and detainees, as well as informal supervisory observation of living and working conditions.                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|It also requires the posting of Hotline informational posters from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General.                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The ICE/DRO Field Office Director ensures that        weekly announced and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|unannounced visits occur.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Scheduled visits are posted in ICE/DRO detainee     areas.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visiting ICE staff observe and note current climate    and conditions of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|confinement.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO Detainee Request Forms are available  for use by ICE/DRO detainees.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility treats detainee correspondence to           ICE/DRO staff as    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special Correspondence.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO detainees are notified in writing upon         admission to the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility of their right to correspond   with ICE/DRO staff regarding their   |        |            |       |                                              |
|case or conditions of confinement. Detainees will be advised how to contact  |        |            |       |                                              |
|local ICE personnel.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|OIG Hotline informational posters are mounted in all appropriate common areas|        |            |       |                                              |
|(recreation, dining, etc.)  and, in SPCs and CDFs, all housing areas.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Daily telephone serviceability checks are                   documented in the|        |            |       |                                              |
|housing unit logbook.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff should provide general information to detainees pertaining to the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|immigration court process.  At a minimum, this information should include the|        |            |       |                                              |
|types of hearings such as master calendar and merits hearings.  Legal advice |        |            |       |                                              |
|will not be provided by ICE/DRO staff.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






  |PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, and volunteers from harm and contributes to orderly facility operations by maintaining     |
|control of tools, culinary utensils, and medical and dental instruments, equipment, and supplies.                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|There is an individual who is responsible for developing a tool control      |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedure and an inspection system to insure accountability.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The use of tools, keys, medical equipment, and culinary equipment is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|controlled.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A metal or plastic chit is taken in exchange for all      tools issued, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|when a tool is issued from a           shadow board the receipt chit shall be|        |            |       |                                              |
|visible on the shadow board.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a tool classification system. Tools     are classified      |        |            |       |                                              |
|according to:                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restricted (dangerous/hazardous)                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non Restricted (non-hazardous).                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility has procedures for the issuance of tools to staff and          |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard authorizes staff to use necessary force after all reasonable efforts to otherwise resolve a situation have failed, for protection  |
|of all persons; to minimize injury to self, detainees, staff, and others for prevention of escape or serious property damage, or to maintain the security  |
|and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a Use of Force        policy.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy authorizes staff to respond in an                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediate-use-of-force situation without a                 supervisor’s      |        |            |       |                                              |
|presence or direction.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility subscribes to the prescribed                    Confrontation   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Avoidance Procedures.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee must be forcibly moved and/or       restrained and there is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|time for a calculated use of    force, staff use the Use-of-Force Team       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Technique.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff members are trained in the performance of the Use-of-Force Continuum to|        |            |       |                                              |
|include the use of           deadly force and the Use of ForceTeam Technique.|        |            |       |                                              |
|All use-of-force incidents are documented and          reviewed.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All use of force incidents are properly documented and forwarded for review; |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediate use of force documentation at a minimum, shall include the medical |        |            |       |                                              |
|examination through the conclusion of the incident.  All calculated uses of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|force incidents must be audio visually recorded in its entirety from the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|beginning of the incident to its conclusion.  Any breaks in recording, e.g., |        |            |       |                                              |
|dead batteries, tape exhausted, are fully explained on the video             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff:                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Does not use force as punishment.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attempts to gain the detainee's voluntary                   cooperation      |        |            |       |                                              |
|before resorting to force                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses only as much force as necessary to control the detainee.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses restraints only when other non-confrontational means, including verbal  |        |            |       |                                              |
|persuasion, have failed or    are impractical.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medication may only be used for restraint purposes  when authorized by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Authority as             medically necessary.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use-of-Force Teams follow written  procedures that attempt to prevent injury |        |            |       |                                              |
|and exposure to communicable disease(s).                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees subjected to use of force shall be seen by medical staff as soon as|        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In immediate-use-of-force situations, officers contact medical staff once the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is under control.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the Facility Administrator authorizes use of non-lethal weapons:        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff is consulted before staff use pepper     spray/non-lethal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|weapons.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff review the detainee's medical file          before use of a    |        |            |       |                                              |
|non-lethal weapon is authorized.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intermediate Force Weapons, when not in use are    stored in areas where     |        |            |       |                                              |
|access is limited to authorized personnel and to which detainees have no     |        |            |       |                                              |
|access.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special precautions are taken when restraining         pregnant detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical personnel are               consulted.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff documents every use of force and/or non-        routine application of |        |            |       |                                              |
|restraints. A written report shall be provided to the shift supervisor by    |        |            |       |                                              |
|each officer     involved in the use of force by the end of the officer’s    |        |            |       |                                              |
|shift.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new officers must receive substantive training      during their first   |        |            |       |                                              |
|year of employment.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All officers receive training in self-defense,                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|confrontation-avoidance techniques and the use of   force to control         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff authorized to use OC spray receives training not only in its use,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|but also in the decontamination of individuals exposed to it. This training  |        |            |       |                                              |
|must be          documented in the staff members training record.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff will be trained in the operation of audiovisual     recording          |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment. There will be a sufficient          number of cameras             |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriately located and           maintained in the facility.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 3 ORDER


19 Disciplinary System

|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard promotes a safe and orderly living environment for detainees by establishing a fair and equitable disciplinary system, requiring   |
|detainees to comply with facility rules and regulations, and imposing disciplinary sanctions to those who do not comply.                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written disciplinary system using        progressive      |        |            |       |                                              |
|levels of reviews and appeals.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility rules state that disciplinary action shall not be capricious or |        |            |       |                                              |
|retaliatory.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written rules prohibit staff from imposing or permitting the following       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanctions:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|deviations from normal food service                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing deprivation                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding deprivation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|denial of personal hygiene items                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|loss of correspondence privileges                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|deprivation of physical exercise                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The rules of conduct, sanctions, and procedures for     violations are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|defined in writing and communicated to  all detainees verbally and in        |        |            |       |                                              |
|writing.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following items are conspicuously posted in           Spanish and English|        |            |       |                                              |
|or other dominate languages used in the facility:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and Responsibilities                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited Acts                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Severity Scale                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sanctions                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When minor rule violations or prohibited acts occur,     informal resolutions|        |            |       |                                              |
|are encouraged.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written procedures for appealing disciplinary decisions.  All      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are given a copy of these       procedures.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 4 CARE


20    Food Service
21    Hunger Strikes
22    Medical Care
23    Personal Hygiene
24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees are provided a nutritionally balanced diet that is prepared and presented in a sanitary and hygienic food   |
|service operation.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The food service program is under the direct             supervision of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|trained staff.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Knife cabinets close with an approved locking device and staff maintain      |        |            |       |                                              |
|control of the key that locks the device.  Knives and keys are inventoried   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and stored in accordance with the Detention Standard on Tool Control.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All knives not in a secure cutting room are physically secured to the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstation and staff directly supervise detainees using knives at these     |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstations. Staff  monitor the condition of knives and dining utensils.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is adequate health protection for all inmates and staff in the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility, and for all persons working in food service.  Inmates and other    |        |            |       |                                              |
|persons working in food service are monitored each day for health and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|cleanliness by the food service supervisor or designee. Detainee clothing and|        |            |       |                                              |
|grooming comply with the "Food Service" standard.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are served at three meals daily at least     two of which are hot  |        |            |       |                                              |
|meals.  No more than 14 hours elapse between the last meal served and the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|first     meal of the following day.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|A registered dietitian conducts a complete nutritional analysis, at least    |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually, of every master-cycle menu planned.  The dietitian certifies menus |        |            |       |                                              |
|before implementation.  If necessary, assigned staff modifies the menu in    |        |            |       |                                              |
|light of the nutritional analysis, to ensure nutritional adequacy.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The cycle is reevaluated to maintain the integrity of   the nutritional      |        |            |       |                                              |
|analysis.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The food service program addresses medical diets.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Satellite-feeding programs follow guidelines for         proper sanitation.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hot and cold foods are maintained at the prescribed, "safe" temperature(s) as|        |            |       |                                              |
|served.  See Detention       Standard on Food Service for guidance.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All meals provided in nutritionally adequate portions.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food is not used to punish or reward detainees         based upon behavior.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility implements written procedures for the administrative, medical,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and/or dietary personnel conducting the weekly inspections of all food       |        |            |       |                                              |
|service areas, including dining, storage, equipment, and food-preparation    |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard procedure includes checking and documenting temperatures of all     |        |            |       |                                              |
|dishwashing machines after each meal, in accordance with the Detention       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Food Service.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff documents the results of every refrigerator/ freezer temperature check,|        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with the Detention Standard on Food Service.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The cleaning schedule for each food service area is conspicuously posted.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include inspecting all incoming food        shipments for damage, |        |            |       |                                              |
|contamination, and pest        infestation.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Storage areas are locked when not in use.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An independent, external source shall conduct annual inspections to ensure   |        |            |       |                                              |
|that the   food service facilities and equipment meet governmental health and|        |            |       |                                              |
|safety codes.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corrective action is taken on deficiencies, if any.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only those toxic and caustic materials required for    sanitary maintenance  |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the facility, equipment, and  utensils shall be used in the food service  |        |            |       |                                              |
|department. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs)   will be maintained on all  |        |            |       |                                              |
|flammable, toxic, and          caustic substances used.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility is responsible for pest control in the food service department, |        |            |       |                                              |
|including contracting the services of an outside exterminator.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a facility has a no-pork menu, in order to alleviate  any confusion for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|those who observe no-pork diets   for religious reasons, this information    |        |            |       |                                              |
|should be        included in the facility’s handbook and the facility        |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation.  If the facility has a chaplain, s/he should also be made aware |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the policy.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

Reviewer’s Signature / Date







|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well-being by monitoring, counseling, and providing appropriate treatment to any detainee who is on |
|a hunger strike.                                                                                                                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Facility immediately report via the chain of      command a hunger strike to |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO and DIHS.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has established procedures to ensure     staff respond          |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately to a hunger strike.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical staff has written procedures for treating hunger strikers. Any   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee refusing medical          treatment will be monitored by medical    |        |            |       |                                              |
|staff to          evaluate whether the hunger strike poses a risk to    the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s life or permanent health.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees have access to a continuum of prompt, effective health care and emergency care services, so that their      |
|health care needs are met in a timely and efficient manner at no cost to detainees.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility operates a health care facility in               compliance with|        |            |       |                                              |
|state and local laws and guidelines.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s in-processing procedures for arriving    detainees include    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical and mental health             screening.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The essential positions needed to perform the health services mission and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|provide the required scope of services are described in a staffing plan that |        |            |       |                                              |
|is reviewed at least annually by the health  authority.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Newly admitted detainees will be informed, orally and in writing (in a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|language they can understand), about how to access health services.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees will have access to and receive                 emergency medical, |        |            |       |                                              |
|dental, and mental health          services.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediately upon their arrival, all newly admitted      detainees receive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|initial medical and mental health   screening by a health care provider or a |        |            |       |                                              |
|detention     officer specially trained to perform this function.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|When screening is performed by a detention officer, the facility maintains   |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation of the officer’s special training, and the officer has         |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for reference the DIHS medical training syllabus.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|If language difficulties prevent the health care provider/officer from       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sufficiently communicating with the detainee for purposes of completing the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical screening, the officer obtains translation assistance.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|8.  A signed and dated consent form is obtained from a detainee before       |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical treatment is  administered.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|9.  Detainee's medical records or a copy thereof, are      available.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|10.  Medical screening includes a Tuberculosis (TB)    test.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every arriving detainee receives a TB test.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|During the admission process.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee’s TB-screening does not occur more than one business day after his  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or her arrival at the facility.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees not screened are housed separate from the general population.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|11.  Detainees in the Special Management Unit have       access to the same  |        |            |       |                                              |
|level of health care as   detainees in the general population.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|12.  Staff provides detainees with health services (sick    call) request    |        |            |       |                                              |
|slips daily, upon request.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Request slips are available in languages other than English, including every |        |            |       |                                              |
|language spoken by a sizeable number of the facility’s detainee population.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Service request slips are delivered in a timely fashion to the health care   |        |            |       |                                              |
|provider.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|13.  The facility has a written plan for the delivery of 24-hour emergency   |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care when no  medical personnel are on duty at the facility, or when  |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediate outside medical attention is required.  A plan shall be prepared in|        |            |       |                                              |
|consultation with the facility's routine medical provider, taking into       |        |            |       |                                              |
|account the following:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An on-call provider;                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|A list, available to all staff, of telephone numbers for local ambulances and|        |            |       |                                              |
|hospital services; and                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|On-site emergency first aid and crisis intervention;                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training health care personnel to respond to health-related situations within|        |            |       |                                              |
|4 minutes;                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency evacuation of the detainees from the facility;                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of an emergency medical vehicle;                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of one or more designated hospital emergency rooms or other appropriate  |        |            |       |                                              |
|health facilities;                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency on-call physician, dentist, and mental health professional services|        |            |       |                                              |
|that are available 24 hours per day; and                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security procedures that ensure the immediate transfer of detainees, when    |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|14.  Detention and health care personnel will be trained, at least annually, |        |            |       |                                              |
|to respond to health-related situations within four minutes and to properly  |        |            |       |                                              |
|use first aid kits, available in designated areas.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|15.  Where staff is used to distribute medication, a health care provider    |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly trains these officers.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff responsible for administering or having access to pharmaceuticals  |        |            |       |                                              |
|will be trained on medication management before beginning duty.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|17.  Pharmaceuticals and nonprescription medicines will be stored,           |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventoried, dispensed, and administered in accordance with sound standards  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and facility        needs for safety and security.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|18. Distribution of medication is in accordance with specific instructions   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and procedures established by the health care provider.  Written records of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|all medication given to detainees are maintained. Medicine administration    |        |            |       |                                              |
|error reports shall be kept for all administration errors.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|19. Each facility has written policy and  procedures for the management of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|pharmaceuticals that include:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|A formulary of all prescription and nonprescription medicines stocked or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|routinely procured from outside sources.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A method for obtaining medicines not on the formulary.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prescription practices, including requirements that medications are          |        |            |       |                                              |
|prescribed only when clinically indicated and that prescriptions are reviewed|        |            |       |                                              |
|before being renewed.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procurement, receipt, distribution, storage, dispensing, administration, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|disposal of medications.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Secure storage and perpetual inventory of all controlled substances (DEA     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Schedule II-V), syringes, and needles.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|20. Each facility has a written plan (or  plans) that address the management |        |            |       |                                              |
|of infectious     and communicable diseases, including prevention,           |        |            |       |                                              |
|education, identification, surveillance, immunization  (when applicable),    |        |            |       |                                              |
|treatment, follow-up, isolation       (when indicated), and reporting to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|local, state, and    federal agencies. Plans include:                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Coordination with public health authorities;                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ongoing education for staff and detainees;                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Control, treatment, and prevention strategies;                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Protection of individual confidentiality;                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Media relations;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management of tuberculosis, hepatitis A, B, and C, HIV infection, avian      |        |            |       |                                              |
|influenza, and                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting communicable diseases to local and/or state health departments in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accordance with local and state regulations.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees diagnosed with a communicable disease are isolated according to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|local medical operating procedures. Designated medical staff shall report to |        |            |       |                                              |
|the ICE Epidemiology Unit all cases of nationally notifiable infectious      |        |            |       |                                              |
|diseases.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Female detainees have access to pregnancy testing and pregnancy management   |        |            |       |                                              |
|services that include routine high-risk prenatal care, addiction management, |        |            |       |                                              |
|comprehensive counseling and assistance, nutrition, and postpartum follow-up.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with chronic conditions (such as hypertension and diabetes) will   |        |            |       |                                              |
|receive periodic care and treatment that includes monitoring of medications, |        |            |       |                                              |
|laboratory testing, and chronic care clinics, and others will be scheduled   |        |            |       |                                              |
|for periodic routine medical examinations, as determined by the health       |        |            |       |                                              |
|authority. Detainees with chronic conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and other diseases shall receive periodic care and treatment that includes:  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monitoring of medication,                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Laboratory testing, and                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of chronic care treatment.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with mental health problems will be referred as needed for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detection, diagnosis, treatment, and stabilization to prevent psychiatric    |        |            |       |                                              |
|deterioration while confined.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints for medical or mental health purposes will be authorized only by a|        |            |       |                                              |
|qualified medical or mental health provider, in accordance with the          |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements specified in this Detention Standard.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any detainee referred for mental health treatment receives a comprehensive   |        |            |       |                                              |
|evaluation by a licensed mental health provider within 14 days of the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|referral.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints for medical or mental health purposes may be authorized only by a |        |            |       |                                              |
|qualified medical or mental health provider, after reaching the conclusion   |        |            |       |                                              |
|that less restrictive measures are not successful.  The facility has written |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures that specify:                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The conditions under which restraints may be applied;                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The types of restraints to be used;                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|How a detainee in restraints is to be monitored;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The length of time restraints are to be applied;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirements for documentation, including efforts to use less restrictive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|alternatives; and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|After-incident review.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical authority or mental health provider completes a Post-Restraints  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Observation Report form DIHS-867 or similar form.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Involuntary administration of psychotropic medications to detainees complies |        |            |       |                                              |
|with applicable laws and regulations and the authorizing physician or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|psychiatrist will:                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specify the duration of therapy;                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Document that less restrictive intervention options have been exercised      |        |            |       |                                              |
|without success;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detail how the medication is to be administered;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monitor the detainee for adverse reactions and side effects; and             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prepare treatment plans for less restrictive alternatives as soon as         |        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical authority must reassess on a daily basis the need for continued  |        |            |       |                                              |
|seclusion for the health and safety of the detainee.  Assessments and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|associated decisions will be recorded.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are required to sign a refusal to consent form when treatment is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|refused.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Biohazardous waste will be managed and medical and dental equipment          |        |            |       |                                              |
|decontaminated in accordance with sound medical standards and compliance with|        |            |       |                                              |
|applicable local, state, and federal regulations.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees who require 24-hour medical care will be appropriately placed in a |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility that meets their medical needs.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in medical housing shall have access to all other services.such as |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephone, legal representatives, etc.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee is able to maintain acceptable personal hygiene practices through the provision of adequate bathing     |
|facilities and the issuance and exchange of clean clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|1.  The facility has a policy and procedure for the regular issuance and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|exchange of clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|2.  All new detainees shall be issued clean,                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|indoor/outdoor temperature-appropriate, presentable clothing during          |        |            |       |                                              |
|in-processing at no cost to the           detainee. At a minimum detainees   |        |            |       |                                              |
|receive:                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|One uniform shirt and one pair of uniform pants or one jumpsuit.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of socks.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of underwear (daily change).                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of facility-issued footwear.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|An additional exchange of undergarments shall be made available to detainees |        |            |       |                                              |
|if necessary for health or sanitation reasons.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|3.   New detainees are issued clean bedding, linens        and towels.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|4.  The facility provides and replenishes personal            hygiene items  |        |            |       |                                              |
|as needed.  Gender-specific items      are available. ICE detainees are not  |        |            |       |                                              |
|charged for       these items.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|5.   Toilet facilities are:                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate in number and can be used without staff assistance 24 hours per day |        |            |       |                                              |
|when detainees are confined in their cells or sleeping areas.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires that toilets be provided at a    |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum ratio of one for every 12 male detainees or one for every 8 female   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.  For males, urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|toilets.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bathing facilities are:                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable with temperatures between 100 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires one washbasin for every 12       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-09 requires a minimum ratio of one shower for|        |            |       |                                              |
|every 12 detainees.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with disabilities are provided adequate facilities, support, and   |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|assistance needed for self-care and personal hygiene.                        |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard protects the health and well-being of immigration detainees by training detention facility staff in effective methods for          |
|preventing suicide.  More specifically, facility staff will be trained to recognize and identify potential signs, behaviors, or situations which suggest a |
|detainee may be a suicide risk.  Facility staff will also be trained to proceed with the appropriate sensitivity, supervision, referral, reporting, medical|
|emergency intervention, and treatment when required to take action in order to prevent or minimize such a risk.                                            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written suicide prevention and        intervention program|        |            |       |                                              |
|approved and signed by the     health authority and facility administrator   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and            reviewed annually.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|2.  At a minimum, the Program shall include procedures to address:           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intake screening and referral requirements;                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The identification and supervision of suicide-prone       detainees;         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff training requirements;                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The management and reporting of suicidal incidents,   suicide watches, and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|deaths;                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Provision of safe housing for suicidal detainees;                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Debriefing of any suicides and suicide attempts by       administrative,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|security, and health services staff;                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guidelines for returning a previously suicidal detainee to a facility’s      |        |            |       |                                              |
|general population, upon written authorization of the clinical director.;    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting guidelines for facility personnel when            suspected        |        |            |       |                                              |
|suicidal behavior is observed; and                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures for the proper handling of detainees who exhibit suicidal |        |            |       |                                              |
|behavior.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|3.   Every new staff member receives suicide-prevention training.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide-prevention training occurs during the employee orientation program   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and annually         thereafter.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|4.  Training prepares staff to:                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective methods for identifying the warning signs and symptoms of impending|        |            |       |                                              |
|suicidal behavior,                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors of suicidal behavior,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed detainees,                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective communication between correctional and health care personnel,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Necessary referral procedures,                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level procedures,                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have already attempted suicide, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting and written documentation procedures.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|5.   A health-care provider or specially trained officer      screens all    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees for suicide potential as part of the admission process.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Screening does not occur later than one working day after the detainee’s     |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrival.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation exists that “specially trained officers” have completed        |        |            |       |                                              |
|training in accordance with a syllabus approved by the medical authority.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|6.  Written procedures cover when and how to refer at-  risk detainees to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical staff and procedures are    followed.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|7.   Written procedures cover returning a previously        suicidal detainee|        |            |       |                                              |
|to the general population, upon      written authorization of the clinical   |        |            |       |                                              |
|director or             appropriate health care professional.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|8.   The facility has a designated isolation room for         evaluation and |        |            |       |                                              |
|treatment.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|9.   The designated isolation room does not contain any structures or smaller|        |            |       |                                              |
|items that could be used in a   suicide attempt.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|10.  Medical staff has approved the room for this             purpose.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|11.  Staff observes and documents the status of a           suicide-watch    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee at least once every 15           minutes/constant observation.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|12. At facilities with twenty-four-hour medical staff,         observation of|        |            |       |                                              |
|imminently suicidal detainees by        medical or detention staff shall     |        |            |       |                                              |
|occur no less than     every 15 minutes. The Clinical Director (CD) may      |        |            |       |                                              |
|recommend constant direct supervision. If a detainee is clinically evaluated |        |            |       |                                              |
|and determined to be at risk for suicide, medical staff shall document the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|status of the detainee in the medical record at least every two hours, unless|        |            |       |                                              |
|otherwise directed by the CD.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|13.  In CDFs or IGSAs, and/or at facilities where there is not twenty-four   |        |            |       |                                              |
|hour medical staff, the facility            administrator shall report to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO any detainee  who has been identified as suicidal. ICE/DRO, shall    |        |            |       |                                              |
|consult with the CD or designated medical authority  for immediate evaluation|        |            |       |                                              |
|(with constant observation  until evaluation), or for transfer to a local    |        |            |       |                                              |
|psychiatric facility or emergency room by ambulance                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|14. Every completed suicide and serious suicide            attempt shall be  |        |            |       |                                              |
|subject to a mortality review             process.  A critical incident      |        |            |       |                                              |
|debriefing shall be           provided to all affected staff and detainees.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date







  |PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each facility’s continuum of health care services addresses terminal illness, fatal injury, and advance directives and|
|provides specific guidance in the event of a detainee’s death.                                                                                             |
|Check this box if the facility does not accept ICE detainees who are severely or terminally ill.  Indicate NA in the appropriate box for this portion of   |
|the worksheet.  ALWAYS complete all references to detainee death and related notifications.                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees, who are chronically or terminally ill, are    transferred to an   |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate facility.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility or appropriate ICE office promptly notifies the next-of-kin of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee’s: medical condition.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee's location.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The limitations placed on visiting.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each Field Office Director (FOD) must ensure that    all facilities within   |        |            |       |                                              |
|his or her jurisdiction receive          written instructions detailing the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|specific procedures to be followed in reporting a detainee’s death to the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Field Office, as well as internal Field Office                procedures for |        |            |       |                                              |
|notifying the FOD and others.            Procedures should consider attended |        |            |       |                                              |
|and                 unattended deaths that occur in custody in detention     |        |            |       |                                              |
|facilities, medical facilities and in transit.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures to notify ICE         officials, deceased|        |            |       |                                              |
|family members and consulates, when a detainee dies while in custody.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 5 ACTIVITIES

26    Correspondence and Other Mail
27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
28    Marriage Requests
29    Recreation
30    Religious Practices
31    Telephone Access
32    Visitation
33    Voluntary Work Program

|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to correspond with their families, the community, legal representatives, government offices,   |
|and consular officials consistent with the safe and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has written policy and procedures            concerning         |        |            |       |                                              |
|correspondence and other mail. The       rules for correspondence and other  |        |            |       |                                              |
|mail are posted  in each housing or common area or provided to        each   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee via a detainee handbook.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incoming mail distributed to detainees within 24        hours or one business|        |            |       |                                              |
|day after it is received and     inspected.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outgoing mail is delivered to the postal service within one business day of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|its entering the internal mail system (excluding weekends and holidays).     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintains a logbook-recording acceptance of   priority, priority       |        |            |       |                                              |
|overnight, and certified mail delivered to the facility for a detainee.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outgoing Special Correspondence shall not be         opened, inspected, or   |        |            |       |                                              |
|read;                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides writing paper, envelopes, and    pencils at no cost to |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE detainees.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU units have the same correspondence privileges as general population.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard permits detainees to maintain ties with their families and the community by providing detainees emergency staff-escorted trips into|
|the community to visit critically ill members of the immediate family or to attend their funerals.                                                         |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Non-Medical Emergency Escorted Trips are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the      |
|detainee case.                                                                                                                                             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director considers and approves, on a case-by-case basis,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|trips to an immediate family  member's:                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Funeral                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deathbed                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The IGSA facility notifies ICE of all detainee requests for non-medical      |        |            |       |                                              |
|escorts.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility procedures comply with the following ICE      Standards:            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transportation (Land Transportation)                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints applied strictly in accordance with the Use of Force Standard.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



  |PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each marriage request from an ICE/DRO detainee receives a case-by-case review and based on internal guidelines for    |
|approval of such requests.                                                                                                                                 |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director or Facility Administrator considers detainee       |        |            |       |                                              |
|marriage requests on a case-by-case basis.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook explains the marriage          request process.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date





|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee has access to recreational and exercise programs and activities, within the constraints of safety,      |
|security, and good order.                                                                                                                                  |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Facility provides:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An indoor recreation program.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|An outdoor recreation program.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to recreation activities for at    least one hour      |        |            |       |                                              |
|daily, 5 days a week.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All recreation areas under constant staff supervision.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 5 – 30. RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees of different religious beliefs are provided reasonable and equitable opportunities to participate in the    |
|practices of their respective faiths, constrained only by concerns about safety, security, the orderly operation of the facility, or extraordinary costs   |
|associated with a specific practice.                                                                                                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to engage in religious services.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility allows detainees to observe the major “holy days” of their      |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious faith.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee is allowed religious items in his/her immediate possession.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Volunteer’s credentials are checked and verified before allowing             |        |            |       |                                              |
|participation in detainee programs.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees may maintain ties with their families and others in the community by providing them reasonable and equitable|
|access to telephone services.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed access to telephones            during established     |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility waking hours including      access to TTY devices.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon admittance, detainees are made aware of        the facility's telephone |        |            |       |                                              |
|access policy.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Notification explaining the facilities telephone            policy is in the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Handbook.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Access rules, including updated telephone and         consulate numbers are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|posted in housing units.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility makes a reasonable effort to provide       key information to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in languages                 spoken by any significant portion of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility's        population.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are provided at a minimum ratio of         one telephone per 25   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in the facility            population.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are inspected daily by facility staff          to ensure that they|        |            |       |                                              |
|are in good working order.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are afforded a reasonable degree of        privacy for legal phone |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A procedure exists to assist a detainee who is           having trouble      |        |            |       |                                              |
|placing a confidential call.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides the detainees with the                ability to make  |        |            |       |                                              |
|non-collect (special access)               calls at no charge to the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees. .                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|All telephone restrictions are documented.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Phone call messages are given to detainees as soon as possible.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to return emergency               phone calls as soon  |        |            |       |                                              |
|as possible.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are                   allowed phone    |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls relating to the detainee's            immigration case or other legal  |        |            |       |                                              |
|matters,                    including consultation calls.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are                   allowed phone    |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls to consular/embassy                  officials.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in administrative segregation and              protective custody  |        |            |       |                                              |
|afforded the same                         telephoning privileges as those in |        |            |       |                                              |
|general                  population.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|When detainee phone calls are monitored,                notification is      |        |            |       |                                              |
|posted by detainee telephones             that phone calls made by the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees may be        monitored. Special Access calls are not              |        |            |       |                                              |
|monitored.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to maintain ties through visitation with their families, the community, legal representatives, |
|and consular officials, within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There is a written visitation procedure, schedule, and hours for general     |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visitation schedule and rules are available to the public.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A written copy of the rules regulating visitation and the hours of visitation|        |            |       |                                              |
|is available to visitors in English, Spanish, and other major languages      |        |            |       |                                              |
|spoken in the facility.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A general visitation log is maintained.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitors are searched and identified according to standard requirements.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Legal visitation is available seven (7) days a week, including holidays.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard provides detainees opportunities to work and earn money while confined, subject to the number of work opportunities available and  |
|within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.  While not legally required to do so, ICE/DRO affords working detainees basic Occupational     |
|Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protections.                                                                                                       |
|Check here if ICE detainees are not authorized to work at the IGSA facility.  Mark NA and move to next section.                                            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern selection of detainees for the Voluntary Work      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The same procedures apply for replacement workers as for “new” workers.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility complies with work-hour requirements for detainees, not         |        |            |       |                                              |
|exceeding:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Eight hours a day.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Forty hours a week.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee volunteers ordinarily work according to a fixed schedule.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff screens and formally certifies detainee food service           |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before the assignment begins                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|As a matter of written procedure                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees receive safety equipment/ training sufficient for the assignment   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

 Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
      




 Reviewer’s Signature / Date

Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 6 JUSTICE


34    Detainee Handbook
35    Grievance System
36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard requires that, upon admission, every detainee be provided comprehensive written orientation materials that describe such matters as|
|the facility’s rules and sanctions, disciplinary system, mail and visiting procedures, grievance system, services, programs, and medical care, in the      |
|languages spoken by significant numbers of detainees in that facility, and that detainees acknowledge receipt of those materials.                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a detainee handbook. Each detainee receives a copy of the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|local handbook and the ICE National Handbook.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook is written in English and translated into Spanish, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other languages spoken by significant numbers of detainees in that facility. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook states in clear language basic detainee                |        |            |       |                                              |
|responsibilities.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook clearly outlines the methods for classification of detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes; Official count times and count procedures, meal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|times, feeding procedures, procedures for medical or religious diets, smoking|        |            |       |                                              |
|policy, Clothing exchange schedules and if authorized, clothes washing and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|drying procedures and expected personal hygiene practices.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes; the telephone policy, debit card procedures, direct  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and frees calls; locations of telephones; policy when telephone demand is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|high; and policy and procedures for emergency phone calls.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook addresses religious programming.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook states times and procedures for commissary or vending machine   |        |            |       |                                              |
|usage. (where available)                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the library location and hours of operation and law   |        |            |       |                                              |
|library procedures and schedules.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes: attorney and regular visitation hours, policies, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures, location of the list of pro bono legal organizations; group legal|        |            |       |                                              |
|rights presentations schedule and sign up procedures.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook/supplement provides local ICE contact information.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility contraband policy.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility visiting hours and schedule and visiting |        |            |       |                                              |
|rules and regulations.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the correspondence policy and procedures.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee disciplinary policy and procedures,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|including:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited acts and severity scale sanctions.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Time limits in the Disciplinary Process.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Summary of Disciplinary Process.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the medical sick call procedures for general          |        |            |       |                                              |
|population and segregation.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility recreation policy including:             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outdoor recreation hours.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Indoor recreation hours.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|In dorm leisure activities.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rules for television viewing.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee dress code.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook specifies the rights and responsibilities of all detainees.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are required to sign for the handbook to ensure accountability.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation materials are provided to illiterate detainees either orally or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|via audio/video tapes in a language they can understand.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights and ensures they are treated fairly by providing a procedure by which they may file formal grievances   |
|and receive timely responses.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the facility’s informal and formal grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|system.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every member of the staff knows how to identify emergency grievances,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|including the procedures for expediting them.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are documented or substantiated cases of staff harassing, disciplining,|        |            |       |                                              |
|penalizing, or otherwise retaliating against a detainee who lodges a         |        |            |       |                                              |
|complaint.  If yes, explain.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include maintaining a Detainee Grievance Log.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If not, an alternative acceptable record keeping system is maintained.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|"Nuisance complains" are identified in the records.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|For quality control purposes, staff documents nuisance complaints received   |        |            |       |                                              |
|but not filed.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff comply with the requirement to report allegations of officer misconduct|        |            |       |                                              |
|to a supervisor or higher-level official in his or her chain of command,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|and/or to ICE/DRO Office of Professional Responsibility and/or the DHS       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Inspector General.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to courts, counsel, and legal materials.                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility provides access to a designated law       library for detainee  |        |            |       |                                              |
|use.                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The law library contains all materials listed in the      “Access to Legal   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Materials” Standard,                        Attachment A.  The listing of    |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials is posted       in the law library.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the Lexis/Nexis CD-ROM service alternative is      used for the           |        |            |       |                                              |
|publications in Attachment A, the          facility provides detainees       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sufficient:                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable computers and printers, in sufficient           numbers in order to |        |            |       |                                              |
|provide access                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Photocopiers, and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supplies for both.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff ensures that illiterate or non-English-                speaking        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees without legal representation       receive more than access to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|English-language         law books after indicating their need for help.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to information presented by authorized persons and organizations for the       |
|purpose of informing them of U.S. immigration law and procedures.                                                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
| Check here if No Group Presentations were conducted within the past 12 months.  Mark Standard as Acceptable overall and continue on with next portion of  |
|worksheet.                                                                                                                                                 |
|The Field Office is responsive to requests by attorneys and accredited       |        |            |       |                                              |
|representatives for group presentations.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon receipt of concurrence by the Field Office Director, the facility or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized ICE/DRO Field Office ensures proper notification to attorneys or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accredited representatives in a timely manner.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 7 ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT

38    Detention Files
39    News Media Interviews and Tours
40    Staff Training
41    Transfer of Detainees


|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard contributes to efficient and responsible facility management by maintaining for each detainee booked into a facility for |
|more than 24 hours a file of all significant information about that person.                                                                      |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                              |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                     |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                     |
|A detention file is created for every new arrival        whose stay will     |        |            |       |                                     |
|exceed 24 hours.                                                             |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detainee detention file contains either                 originals or     |        |            |       |                                     |
|copies of documentation and forms        generated during the admissions     |        |            |       |                                     |
|process.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detainee’s detention file also contains                 documents        |        |            |       |                                     |
|generated during the detainee’s              custody.                        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Special requests                                                             |        |            |       |                                     |
|Any G-589s and/or I-77s or IGSA equivalent, closed-out during the detainee’s |        |            |       |                                     |
|stay                                                                         |        |            |       |                                     |
|Disciplinary forms/Segregation forms                                         |        |            |       |                                     |
|Grievances, complaints, and the disposition(s) of same                       |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detention file are located and maintained in       a secured area.       |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detention file remains active during the               detainee’s stay.  |        |            |       |                                     |
|When the detainee is released        from the facility, staff adds copies of |        |            |       |                                     |
|completed        release documents, the original closed-out                  |        |            |       |                                     |
|receipts for property and valuables, the original         I-385 or equivalent|        |            |       |                                     |
|and other documentation.                                                     |        |            |       |                                     |
|The officer closing the detention file makes a            notation that the  |        |            |       |                                     |
|file is complete and ready to be       archived.                             |        |            |       |                                     |
|Staff makes copies and sends documents from        the file when             |        |            |       |                                     |
|appropriately requested by                    supervisory personnel at the   |        |            |       |                                     |
|receiving facility or        office.                                         |        |            |       |                                     |
|Appropriate staff has access to the detention file      and other            |        |            |       |                                     |
|departmental requests are                         accommodated by making a   |        |            |       |                                     |
|request for the file.       Each file is properly logged out and in by a     |        |            |       |                                     |
|representative of the responsible department.                                |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                     |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that the public and the media are informed of events within the facility’s areas of responsibility through interviews and  |
|tours.                                                                                                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Exceeds |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                              |
|                                                                             |Standard|Standard|Meet        |       |                                     |
|                                                                             |s       |s       |Standards   |       |                                     |
|In the past year, have there been any interviews       by reporters, other   |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|news media representatives,       academics and others not covered by the    |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Detention Standard on Visitation?                                            |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|If so, were they permitted only by special                   arrangement and |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|with approval of the respective       ICE/DRO Field Office Director?         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive initial and  |
|ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts appropriate orientation, initial training, and annual  |        |            |       |                                              |
|training for all staff, contractors, and volunteers.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The amount and content of training is consistent with the duties and function|        |            |       |                                              |
|of each individual and the degree of direct supervision that individual      |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel authorized to use firearms receive training that covers their use, |        |            |       |                                              |
|safety, and care and constraints on their use -- before being assigned to a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|post involving their possible use.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|All personnel authorized to use firearms demonstrate competency in their use |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least annually.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel authorized to use chemical agents receive training in the use of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|chemical agents and in the treatment of individuals exposed to a chemical    |        |            |       |                                              |
|agent before being assigned to a post involving their possible use.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least annually to|        |            |       |                                              |
|respond to health-related emergencies within four minutes.  The training is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided by a responsible medical authority in cooperation with the facility |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator and includes:                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing of signs of potential health emergencies and the required        |        |            |       |                                              |
|responses.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administering first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtaining emergency medical assistance through the facility plan and its     |        |            |       |                                              |
|required procedures.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing signs and symptoms of mental illness, suicide risk, retardation, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and chemical dependency.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s established plan and procedures for providing emergency       |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical care including, when required, the safe and secure transfer of       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees for appropriate hospital or other medical services, including by   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ambulance when indicated.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|7.    All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least      |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually on the facility’s Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intervention Program.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|8.    All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least      |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|annually on the facility’s Suicide Prevention and Intervention Program, to   |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|include:                                                                     |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Identifying the warning signs and symptoms of        impending suicidal      |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|behavior,                                                                    |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors      of suicidal behavior,  |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed                     detainees,          |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Communication between correctional and health     care personnel,            |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Referral procedures,                                                         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level           procedures, and        |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have          attempted suicide.       |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|All staff are trained during orientation and annually to recognize the signs |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|of a hunger strike and on the procedures for referral for medical assessment.|        |        |            |       |                                     |
|All staff are trained in proper procedures for the      care and handling of |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|keys.                                                                        |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard ensures that transfers of detainees from one facility to another are professionally and responsibly managed in regard to            |
|notifications, detainee records, safety and security, and protection of detainee funds and personal property.                                               |
|Components                                                                   |Exceeds |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                               |
|                                                                             |Standard|Standard|Meet        |       |                                      |
|                                                                             |s       |s       |Standards   |       |                                      |
|When a detainee is represented by legal counsel       or a legal             |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|representative, and a G-28 has been         filed, the representative of     |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|record is notified by          the detainee’s Deportation Officer within 24  |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|hours of transfer.                                                           |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The notification is recorded in the detainee’s file                          |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|When the A-File is not available, notification is noted within ENFORCE.      |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Notification includes the reason for the transfer        and the location of |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|the new facility,                                                            |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The deportation officer is allowed discretion              regarding the     |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|timing of the notification when              extenuating circumstances are   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|involved.                                                                    |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The attorney and detainee are notified that it is          their             |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|responsibility to notify family members               regarding a transfer.  |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Facility policy mandates that:                                               |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Times and transfer plans are never discussed          with the detainee prior|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|to transfer.                                                                 |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The detainee is not notified of the transfer until          immediately prior|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|to departing the facility.                                                   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The detainee is not permitted to make any                 phone calls or have|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|contact with any detainee in       the general population.                   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The detainee is provided with a completed                Detainee Transfer   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Notification Form.                                                           |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Form G-391 or equivalent authorizing the                  removal of a       |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|detainee from a facility is used.                                            |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Detainee’s funds and valuables and property are      returned and transferred|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|with the detainee to his       or her new location.                          |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Meals are provided when transfers occur during       normally schedule meal  |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|times.                                                                       |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|An A-File or work folder accompanies the                 detainee when       |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|transferred to a different Field           Office or sub-office.             |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|A-Files are forwarded to the receiving office via        overnight mail no   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|later than one business day           following the transfer.                |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding


Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)



Reviewer’s Signature / Date

[pic]
                                                     U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
                                                         Office of Detention and Removal
                                                                      [pic]





                                                                      [pic]




                                                  National Performance-Based Detention Standards
                                                  Outcome Measures for Under 72 Hour Facilities

                                                                September 9, 2008




[pic]
                                                          Detention Management Division
                                                                 801 I Street NW
                                                               Washington, DC 20536
[pic]





What is “Performance-Based”?

Unlike “policy and procedures” that focus solely on what is to be done, performance-based  standards  start  with  a  focus  on  the  results  or
outcomes the required procedures are expected to accomplish.  Each National Performance-Based Detention Standard (NDS)  includes  clearly  stated
Expected Outcomes to reflect the standard’s contribution to the agency’s broader mission and detention goals.

The Expected Practices in each NDS represent what is to be done to accomplish the Expected Outcomes that address the Detention  Standard  Purpose
and Scope.  Outcome Measures are the indicators examined in order to determine whether (or how  well)  a  facility  is  addressing  the  Expected
Outcomes.  Outcome data, along with the levels of compliance with Expected Practices are considered as part of the totality of  conditions  in  a
facility.

The new National Performance-Based National Detention Standards address or  incorporate  American  Correctional  Association  (ACA)  Adult  Local
Detention Facility Standards, which are the industry benchmark.

Worksheet Overview

Two sets of Detention Review Worksheets are used to assess compliance with the National Performance-Based Detention Standards  (NDS)  –  both  of
which are derived from the Expected Practices articulated in the Standards themselves:

      ▪ The G324A is used for facilities that house detainees for over 72 hours.
      ▪ The G324B is used for facilities that house detainees for under 72 hours.

The G324B is for use with under 72 hour facilities and does not contain as much detail on the following NDS as is included in the 324A:
Correspondence and Other Mail, Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies, Law Libraries and Legal Material, Legal Rights Group Presentations,
Marriage Requests, Recreation, and Voluntary Work Program. These standards were not included in the prior version of the 324B due to the short
term nature of the detention in facilities that are used for 72 hours or less. These sections are now included in the 324B but only only to the
extent that facilities seek applicability and are not mandated by ICE. For example, voluntary work programs are not required, but if detainees
work, compliance with the NDS is required.

Mandatory components in several of the standards are noted on the worksheets. Mandatory items must be met in order for the facility to receive  a
satisfactory rating for that standard.  These mandatory components typically represent life safety issues.  A Does Not  Meet  rating  on  one  of
these components is very serious, failing to meet one of the mandatory components means that the overall facility review rating will be Does  Not
Meet standards.

The Outcome Measures Worksheet section is  completely  new  for  the  National  Performance-Based  Detention  Standards.   The  Outcome  Measures
Worksheets are to be will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the review team. Ideally, this information will be maintained  on  a
continuous basis by the facility as part of an Outcome Measures database to provide a  perpetual  record  for  monitoring  facility  performance.
Detention reviewers will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and trends.



Worksheet Completion

Reviewers are required to complete each item of each section of the G324A and G324B Detention Review Worksheets.  Worksheets  are  in  a  uniform
format with six columns with NDS purpose and scope cited at the top of the worksheet.  Column 1 contains the NDS standard  assessment  component.
Columns 2-5 are provided for the ratings assigned to each component that is assessed.  While there is a column titled N/A or not applicable,  the
NA rating should be used rarely and only when it applies.  The remarks section is provided for reviewers to include details on each  rating  that
may raise a question such as the Does Not Meet Standards or N/A ratings.   Reviewers  may  find  it  useful  to  include  rationale  for  Exceeds
Standards ratings as well.



A Remarks section is provided at the end of the outcome measures section for  summary  comments  and  analysis  of  outcome  measures  data.  The
information included in the worksheet components Remarks sections and in the final summary Remarks section should be considered for inclusion  in
the reviewer report that summarizes the overall facility review process.



Outcome Measures Completion

The Outcome Measures Worksheets will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the  review  team.  Ideally,  this  information  will  be
maintained on a continuous basis by the facility as part of an Outcome Measures database to provide a perpetual record  for  monitoring  facility
performance.  Data should be verified as accurate by the facility before including it in the database.



Detention reviewers will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and  trends.  In
a few instances outcome  measures  are  not  provided  for  some  the  National  Performance-Based  Detention  Standards  because  after  careful
consideration of the standard the assessment process has been determined to be more process-oriented in nature.









                                                                Table of Contents


PART 1      SAFETY
      1     Emergency Plans
      2     Environmental Health and Safety
      3     Transportation (By Land)

PART 2      SECURITY
      4     Admission and Release
      5     Classification System
      6     Contraband
      7     Facility Security and Control
      8     Funds and Personal Property
      9     Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
      10    Key and Lock Control
      11    Population Counts
      12    Post Orders
      13    Searches of Detainees
      14    Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
      15    Special Management Units
      16    Staff-Detainee Communication
      17    Tool Control
      18    Use of Force and Restraints

PART 3      ORDER
      19    Disciplinary System

PART 4      CARE
      20    Food Service
      21    Hunger Strikes
      22    Medical Care
      23    Personal Hygiene
      24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
      25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

PART 5      ACTIVITIES
      26    Correspondence and Other Mail
      27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
      28    Marriage Requests
      29    Recreation
      30    Religious Practices
      31    Telephone Access
      32    Visitation
      33    Voluntary Work Program

PART 6      JUSTICE
      34    Detainee Handbook
      35    Grievance System
      36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
      37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

PART 7      ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
      38    Detention Files
      39    News Media Interviews and Tours
      40    Staff Training
      41    Transfer of Detainees


|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively   |
|respond to any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|WorksheetItem #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|17                 |1 (Key)           |Number of injuries resulting from fires requiring medical         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |treatment                                                         |               |                       |
|                   |(1C09)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|19,21              |2 (Key)           |Number of fires that resulted in property damage                  |               |                       |
|                   |(1C10)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|21                 |3 (Key)           |Number of hours that facility operations were suspended due to    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |emergencies that were not caused by forces external to the        |               |                       |
|                   |(1C08)            |facility                                                          |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of emergencies.                             |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively   |
|respond to any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet          |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #             |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|3, 8, 13           |1 (Key)           |Number of worker's compensation claims filed for injuries that    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |resulted from the physical environment.                           |               |                       |
|                   |(1A01)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average number of full-time equivalent staff       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |positions                                                         |               |                       |
|1,8,13,18          |2 (Key)           |Number of physical injuries or emotional traumas requiring        |               |                       |
|                   |(1A04)            |treatment as a result of the physical environment of the facility |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|27,30,31           |3 (Key)           |Number of sanitation or health-code violations identified by      |               |                       |
|                   |(1A06)            |external agencies                                                 |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|3,10,17,36         |4 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances related to safety or sanitation     |               |                       |
|                   |(1A08)            |found in favor of detainees                                       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of detainee’s grievances related to safety  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |or sanitation.                                                    |               |                       |
|9                  |5 (Key)           |Number of detainee injuries resulting from fires requiring medical|               |                       |
|                   |(1A10)            |treatment in a 12-month period                                    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|19,30,31,33,36,37  |6                 |Number of illnesses requiring medical attention as a result of the|               |                       |
|                   |(1A02)            |physical environment of the facility                              |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population                           |               |                       |
|27,30,31           |7                 |Number of health code violations corrected                        |               |                       |
|                   |(1A07)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of health code violations identified.       |               |                       |
| 9                 |8                 |Number of fire-code violations corrected                          |               |                       |
|                   |(1A09)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of fire code violations cited by            |               |                       |
|                   |                  |jurisdictional authority.                                         |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard prevents harm to the general public, detainees, and staff by ensuring that vehicles are properly equipped, maintained,   |
|and operated and that detainees are transported in a secure, safe and humane manner, under the supervision of trained and experienced staff.     |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Transportation is handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the detainee case.    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1 (Key)           |Number of vehicle accidents resulting in injuries requiring       |               |                       |
|                   |(1B02)            |medical treatment for any party                                   |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors by ensuring secure and orderly operations when     |
|detainees are admitted to or released from a facility.                                                                                           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1 (Key)           |Total number of detainees who received orientation presentations  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |over the last year                                                |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of detainees admitted into the        |               |                       |
|                   |                  |facility over the last year                                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |


|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects the detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm, and contributes to orderly facility |
|operations, by requiring a formal classification process for managing and separating detainees that is based on verifiable and documented data.  |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|2                  |1 (Key)           |Number of escapes from the facility                               |               |                       |
|                   |(2A05)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by identifying, detecting, controlling, and   |
|properly disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                                   |Value         |Outcome Measure   |
|6,7                |1 (Key)           |Number of weapons found in the facility over the past 12 months         |              |                  |
|                   |(2C03)            |                                                                        |              |                  |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                                |              |                  |
|6,7                |2 (Key)           |Number of controlled substances found in the facility                   |              |                  |
|                   |(2C04)            |                                                                        |              |                  |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                                |              |                  |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 7. FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive    |
|initial and ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                          |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|13                 |1                 |Number of incidents                                               |               |                       |
|                   |(2A01)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|3,4                |2                 |Number of full time employees (FTE) filled                        |               |                       |
|                   |                  |Number of FTE authorized                                          |               |                       |
|3,4                |3                 |Number of security employees (FTE) filled                         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |Number of security FTE authorized                                 |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees’ personal property is safeguarded and controlled, specifically including funds, valuables, baggage|
|and other personnel property, and that contraband does not enter a detention facility.                                                           |
|Standard NA:  (IGSA ONLY) Check this box if all ICE detainee Funds, Valuables and Property are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office|
|in control of the detainee case.                                                                                                                 |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|29, 30, 31         |1 (Key)           |Number of missing property claims submitted during the past 12    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of detainees admitted during the past 12    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |


|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard ensures the safety, security, and comfort of detainees temporarily held in Hold Rooms pending further processing.  The   |
|maximum aggregate time an individual may be confined in a facility’s Hold Room is 12 hours.                                                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|6                  |1 (Key)           |Number of detainees kept in hold rooms beyond the 12 hour time    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |constraint in the past 12 months                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of admissions                               |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard maintains facility safety and security by requiring that keys and locks be properly controlled and maintained.           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|WorksheetItem #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|21                 |1                 |Number of incidents involving keys                                |               |                       |
|                   |(2D01)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|21                 |2                 |Number of incidents involving locks                               |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects the community from harm and enhances facility security, safety, and good order by requiring that each facility  |
|have an ongoing, effective system of population counts and detainee accountability.                                                              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|2                  |1                 |Number of incident reports involving count issues (delayed counts,|               |                       |
|                   |                  |inaccurate counts, recounts…)                                     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of counts.                            |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by ensuring that each officer assigned to a   |
|security post knows the procedures, duties, and responsibilities of that post.                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                   |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |


|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by detecting, controlling, and properly       |
|disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|5                  |1 (Key)           |Number of strip searches conducted over the past 12 months        |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by number of detainees admitted into the facility over the|               |                       |
|                   |                  |past 12 months                                                    |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2– 14. SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard requires that facilities that house ICE/DRO detainees affirmatively act to prevent sexual abuse and assaults on          |
|detainees, provide prompt and effective intervention and treatment for victims of sexual abuse and assault, and control, discipline, and         |
|prosecute the perpetrators of sexual abuse and assault.                                                                                          |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                            |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|10                  |1 (Key)           |Number of confirmed sexual misconduct incidents between staff and|               |                       |
|                    |(4D11)            |detainees                                                        |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population for the past 12 months.  |               |                       |
|10                  |2 (Key)           |Number of confirmed sexual misconduct incidents between          |               |                       |
|                    |(4D12)            |volunteers and/or contract personnel and detainees               |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm by segregating certain detainees from the|
|general population in Special Management Units (SMUs) with an Administrative Segregation section for detainees segregated for administrative     |
|reasons and a Disciplinary Segregation section for detainees segregated for disciplinary reasons.                                                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet          |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #             |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |





  |PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard enhances security, safety, and orderly facility operations by encouraging and requiring informal direct and written      |
|contact among staff and detainees, as well as informal supervisory observation of living and working conditions.                                 |
|                                                                                                                                                 |
|It also requires the posting of Hotline informational posters from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General.          |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #       |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1,2,3                  |1 (Key)         |Number of ICE scheduled visits during the last 12 months       |               |                       |
|                       |                |divided by 52 (weeks).                                         |               |                       |
|1,2,3                  |2               |Number of ICE unannounced visits during the last 12 months     |               |                       |
|                       |                |divided by 52 (weeks).                                         |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, and volunteers from harm and contributes to orderly facility operations by       |
|maintaining control of tools, culinary utensils, and medical and dental instruments, equipment, and supplies.                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                            |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|3                   |1                 |Number of incidents involving tools                              |               |                       |
|                    |(2D02)            |                                                                 |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                       |
|3                   |2                 |Number of incidents involving culinary equipment                 |               |                       |
|                    |(2D03)            |                                                                 |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                       |
|3                   |3                 |Number of incidents involving medical equipment and sharps       |               |                       |
|                    |(2D04)            |                                                                 |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard authorizes staff to use necessary force after all reasonable efforts to otherwise resolve a situation have failed, for  |
|protection of all persons; to minimize injury to self, detainees, staff, and others for prevention of escape or serious property damage, or to  |
|maintain the security and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #      |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|7, 28                 |1 (Key)           |Number of instances in which force was used                   |               |                       |
|                      |(2B01)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|7, 9                  |2 (Key)           |Number of times that staff uses of force were found to have   |               |                       |
|                      |(2B03)            |been inappropriate                                            |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the number of uses of force                        |               |                       |
|16,21                 |3 (Key)           |Number of injuries requiring medical treatment resulting from |               |                       |
|                      |(2B06)            |staff use of force                                            |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the average daily population                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard promotes a safe and orderly living environment for detainees by establishing a fair and equitable disciplinary system,  |
|requiring detainees to comply with facility rules and regulations, and imposing disciplinary sanctions to those who do not comply.              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #      |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                     |1 (Key)         |Number of rule violation reports                               |               |                       |
|                      |(3A01)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|1                     |2 (Key)         |Number of assaults -- detainee against detainee                |               |                       |
|                      |(3A02)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|1                     |3 (Key)         |Number of assaults -- detainee against staff                   |               |                       |
|                      |(3A02)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees are provided a nutritionally balanced diet that is prepared and presented in a sanitary and      |
|hygienic food service operation.                                                                                                                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|3                   |1 (Key)           |Number of documented detainee illnesses attributed to food     |               |                       |
|                    |(4A01)            |service operations                                             |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                  |               |                       |
|52                  |3 (Key)           |Number of violations cited by independent authorities for food |               |                       |
|                    |(4A03)            |sanitation in the past 12 months.                              |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well-being by monitoring, counseling, and providing appropriate treatment to any detainee|
|who is on a hunger strike.                                                                                                                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet         |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #            |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|1                 |1 (Key)           |Number of  hunger strikes during past 12 months                   |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the average daily population                           |               |                       |
|13                |2 (Key)           |Number of detainees transported to outside facilities as a result |               |                       |
|                  |                  |of a hunger strike                                                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of hunger strikes during the past 12 months |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |


|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees have access to a continuum of prompt, effective health care and emergency care services, so    |
|that their health care needs are met in a timely and efficient manner at no cost to detainees.                                                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value     |Outcome Measure           |
|67                 |1 (Key)          |Number of detainee deaths due to injuries                         |          |                          |
|                   |(4C12)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                   |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|67                 |2 (Key)          |Number of medically expected detainee deaths                      |          |                          |
|                   |(4C13)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                   |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|67                 |3 (Key)          |Number of medically unexpected detainee deaths                    |          |                          |
|                   |(4C14)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                   |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|29,67              |4 (Key)          |Number of detainee admissions to off-site hospitals               |          |                          |
|                   |(4C16)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                   |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|5,29               |5 (Key)          |Number of detainees transported off-site (via an ambulance or     |          |                          |
|                   |(4C17)           |correctional vehicle) for treatment of emergency health conditions|          |                          |
|                   |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|2,9                |6 (Key)          |Number of staff with lapsed licensure and/or certification        |          |                          |
|                   |(4D01)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                   |                 |divided by the number of licensed or certified staff.             |          |                          |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee is able to maintain acceptable personal hygiene practices through the provision of adequate|
|bathing facilities and the issuance and exchange of clean clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                    |                  |NA                                                            |               |                       |
|                    |                  |                                                              |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |


|PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard protects the health and well-being of immigration detainees by training detention facility staff in effective methods  |
|for preventing suicide.  More specifically, facility staff will be trained to recognize and identify potential signs, behaviors, or situations |
|which suggest a detainee may be a suicide risk.  Facility staff will also be trained to proceed with the appropriate sensitivity, supervision, |
|referral, reporting, medical emergency intervention, and treatment when required to take action in order to prevent or minimize such a risk.   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                     |
|Worksheet           |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #              |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|3                   |1 (Key)         |Number of detainee suicide attempts                            |               |                       |
|                    |(4C09)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |                |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|4                   |2 (Key)         |Number of detainee suicides                                    |               |                       |
|                    |(4C10)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |                |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                               |

|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each facility’s continuum of health care services addresses terminal illness, fatal injury, and advance  |
|directives and provides specific guidance in the event of a detainee’s death.                                                                 |
|Check this box if the facility does not accept ICE detainees who are severely or terminally ill.  Indicate NA in the appropriate box for this |
|portion of the worksheet.  ALWAYS complete all references to detainee death and related notifications.                                        |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet          |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #             |                  |                                                               |               |                       |
|                   |                  |NA                                                             |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                               |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |


|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to correspond with their families, the community, legal representatives,          |
|government offices, and consular officials consistent with the safe and orderly operation of the facility.                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|8,9,10             |1 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances regarding correspondence and     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |other mail                                                     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|8,9,10             |2 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances regarding correspondence and     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |other mail decided in favor of detainees                       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of grievances                      |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |



|PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard permits detainees to maintain ties with their families and the community by providing detainees emergency           |
|staff-escorted trips into the community to visit critically ill members of the immediate family or to attend their funerals.                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                  |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                 |1               |Number of escorted trips denied                                |               |                       |
|                  |                |Divided by the number of requests received                     |               |                       |
|14                |2               |Number of detainees who became disruptive during the trip      |               |                       |
|                  |                |resulting in the trip’s termination                            |               |                       |
|                  |                |Divided by the number of escorted trips taken                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                            |


|PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each marriage request from an ICE/DRO detainee receives a case-by-case review and based on internal    |
|guidelines for approval of such requests.                                                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                  |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                  |                |NA                                                             |               |                       |
|                  |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                            |


|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee has access to recreational and exercise programs and activities, within the constraints of |
|safety, security, and good order.                                                                                                             |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure    |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1,6,7,8            |1                  |Average number of detainees participating in recreation per   |               |                       |
|                   |                   |day                                                           |               |                       |
|                   |                   |divided by the average daily population                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |


|PART 5 – 30. RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees of different religious beliefs are provided reasonable and equitable opportunities to          |
|participate in the practices of their respective faiths, constrained only by concerns about safety, security, the orderly operation of the    |
|facility, or extraordinary costs associated with a specific practice.                                                                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances/complaints regarding religious   |               |                       |
|                   |                  |practices                                                      |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees may maintain ties with their families and others in the community, legal representatives,      |
|consulates, courts, and government agencies by providing them reasonable and equitable access to telephone services.                          |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|27                 |1                 |Number of detainee grievances/complaints regarding telephone   |               |                       |
|                   |                  |access                                                         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |



|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to maintain morale and ties through visitation with their families, the community,|
|legal representatives, and consular officials, within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1                 |Number of detainee grievances/complaints regarding visitation  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |


|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard provides detainees opportunities to work and earn money while confined, subject to the number of work opportunities    |
|available and within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.  While not legally required to do so, ICE/DRO affords working        |
|detainees basic Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protections.                                                              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                     |
|WorksheetItem # |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                               |


|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard requires that, upon admission, every detainee be provided comprehensive written orientation materials that describe   |
|such matters as the facility’s rules and sanctions, disciplinary system, mail and visiting procedures, grievance system, services, programs,  |
|and medical care, in English, Spanish, and other languages and that detainees acknowledge receipt of those materials.                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                            |Value       |Outcome Measure        |
|                    |                 |NA                                                               |            |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                                 |            |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights and ensures they are treated fairly by providing a procedure by which they may file formal |
|grievances and receive timely responses.                                                                                                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                    |                 |NA                                                            |               |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                              |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to courts, counsel, and comprehensive legal materials.              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                           |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|18                  |1                |Number of detainee grievances/complaints regarding access to    |               |                       |
|                    |                 |court decided in favor of detainees.                            |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the total number of grievances filed                 |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to information presented by authorized persons and organizations for|
|the purpose of informing them of U.S. immigration law and procedures.                                                                           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                  |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard contributes to efficient and responsible facility management by maintaining for each detainee booked into a facility for|
|more than 24 hours a file of all significant information about that person.                                                                     |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                  |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |


|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that the public and the media are informed of events within the facility’s areas of responsibility through      |
|interviews and tours.                                                                                                                           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                  |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive   |
|initial and ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                 |1 (Key)           |Number of staff who left employment for any reason                |               |                       |
|                  |(7B02)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of full-time equivalent staff positions.    |               |                       |
|4                 |2                 |Number of initial training hours provided in the past 12 months   |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of staff hired in the past 12 months        |               |                       |
|4                 |3                 |Number of annual training hours provided in the past 12 months    |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the average number of FTE in the past 12 months        |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that transfers of detainees from one facility to another are professionally and responsibly managed in regard to|
|notifications, detainee records, safety and security, and protection of detainee funds and personal property.                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                           |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                    |                 |NA                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                                |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |


A.    Type of Facility Reviewed
      ICE Service Processing Center
      ICE Contract Detention Facility
      ICE Intergovernmental Service Agreement

B.    Current Inspection
|Type of Inspection                                                            |
|                                                                              |
|Date[s] of Facility Review                                                    |
|                                                                              |


C.    Previous/Most Recent Facility Review

|Date[s] of Last Facility Review                                               |
|                                                                              |
|Previous Rating                                                               |
|Superior   Good   Acceptable  Deficient  At-Risk                              |

D.    Name and Location of Facility
|ICE Facility Code                                                            |
|                                                                             |
|Name                                                                         |
|                                                                             |
|Address (Street and Name)                                                    |
|                                                                             |
|City, State and Zip Code                                                     |
|                                                                             |
|County                                                                       |
|                                                                             |
|Name and Title of Facility Administrator (Warden/OIC/Superintendent)         |
|                                                                             |
|Telephone # (Include Area Code)                                              |
|                                                                             |
|Field Office / Sub-Office (List Office with oversight responsibilities)      |
|                                                                             |
|Distance from Field Office                                                   |
|                                                                             |

E. ICE Information
|Name of Inspector (Last Name, Title and Duty Station)                        |
|      /       /                                                              |
|Name of Team Member / Title / Duty Location                                  |
|      /       /                                                              |
|Name of Team Member / Title / Duty Location                                  |
|      /       /                                                              |
|Name of Team Member / Title / Duty Location                                  |
|      /       /                                                              |

F. CDF/IGSA Information Only
|Contract Number                       |Date of Contract or IGSA              |
|                                      |                                      |
|Basic Rates per Man-Day                                                      |
|                                                                             |
|Other Charges:  (If None, Indicate N/A)                                      |
|     ;      ;      ;                                                         |
|Estimated Man-days Per Year                                                  |
|                                                                             |






G. Accreditation Certificates
|List all State or National Accreditation[s] received:                        |
|                                                                             |
|  Check box if facility has no accreditation[s]                              |

H. Problems / Complaints  (Copies must be attached)
|The Facility is under Court Order or Class Action Finding                    |
|Court Order    Class Action Order                                            |
|The Facility has Significant Litigation Pending                              |
|Major Litigation    Life/Safety Issues                                       |
|  Check if None.                                                             |

I.    Facility History
|Date Built                                                                 |
|                                                                           |
|Date Last Remodeled or Upgraded                                            |
|                                                                           |
|Date New Construction / Bedspace Added                                     |
|                                                                           |
|Future Construction Planned                                                |
|Yes   No   Date:                                                           |
|Current Bedspace           |Future Bedspace (# New Beds only)              |
|                           |Number:        Date:                           |

J.    Total Facility Population
|Total Facility Intake for previous 12 months                                |
|                                                                            |
|Total ICE Mandays for Previous 12 months                                    |
|                                                                            |

K.    Classification Level  (ICE SPCs and CDFs Only)
|                           |L-1             |L-2             |L-3           |
|Adult Male                 |                |                |              |
|Adult Female               |                |                |              |

L. Facility Capacity
|                     |Rated          |Operational        |Emergency         |
|Adult Male           |               |                   |                  |
|Adult Female         |               |                   |                  |
|  Facility holds Juveniles Offenders 16 and older as Adults                 |

M.    Average Daily Population
|                           |ICE            |USMS           |Other          |
|Adult Male                 |               |               |               |
|Adult Female               |               |               |               |

N.    Facility Staffing Level
|Security:                            |Support:                             |
|                                     |                                     |






                            Significant Incident Summary Worksheet
For ICE to complete its review of your facility, the following information must be completed prior to the scheduled review dates.  The
information on this form should contain data for the past twelve months in the boxes provided.  The information on this form is used in
conjunction with the ICE Detention Standards in assessing your Detention Operations against the needs of the ICE and its detained population.
This form should be filled out by the facility prior to the start of any inspection.  Failure to complete this section will result in a delay in
processing this report and the possible reduction or removal of ICE’ detainees at your facility.


|Incidents                          |Description                          |Jan – Mar            |Apr – Jun            |Jul – Sept           |Oct – Dec            |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |With Weapon                          |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Without Weapon                       |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Assault:                           |Types (Sexual Physical, etc.)        |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Detainee on                        |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Staff                              |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |With Weapon                          |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Without Weapon                       |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Number of Forced Moves, incl.      |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Forced Cell moves[3]               |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Disturbances[4]                    |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Number of Times Chemical Agents    |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Used                               |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Number of Times Special Reaction   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Team Deployed/Used                 |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Number/Reason (M=Medical, V=Violent  |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|# Times Four/Five Point Restraints |Behavior, O=Other)                   |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|applied/used                       |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Type (C=Chair, B=Bed, BB=Board,      |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |O=Other)                             |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Number of Times Canines Used in    |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Facility                           |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Offender / Detainee Medical        |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Referrals as a result of injuries  |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|sustained.                         |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Escapes                            |Attempted                            |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Actual                               |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Grievances:                        |                                     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |# Received                           |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |# Resolved in favor of               |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Offender/Detainee                    |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Deaths                             |Reason (V=Violent, I=Illness,        |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |S=Suicide, A=Attempted Suicide,      |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |O=Other)                             |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Number                               |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|Psychiatric / Medical Referrals    |# Medical Cases referred for Outside |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Care                                 |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |# Psychiatric Cases referred for     |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                   |Outside Care                         |                     |                     |                     |                     |
|                                                                                                                                            |
|                                                                                                                                            |
|DHS/ICE Detention Standards Review Summary Report                                                                                           |
|1.  Meets Standards    2. Does Not Meet Standards   3.Repeat Finding   4. Not Applicable                            |1    |2    |3    |4    |
|PART 1 SAFETY                                                                                                       |     |     |     |     |
|1    |Emergency Plans                                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|2    |Environmental Health and Safety                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|3    |Transportation (By Land)                                                                                      |     |     |     |     |
|PART 2 SECURITY                                                                                                     |     |     |     |     |
|4     |Admission and Release                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|5     |Classification System                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|6     |Contraband                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|7     |Facility Security and Control                                                                                |     |     |     |     |
|8     |Funds and Personal Property                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|9     |Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities                                                                           |     |     |     |     |
|10    |Key and Lock Control                                                                                         |     |     |     |     |
|11    |Population Counts                                                                                            |     |     |     |     |
|12    |Post Orders                                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|13    |Searches of Detainees                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|14    |Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention                                                         |     |     |     |     |
|15    |Special Management Units                                                                                     |     |     |     |     |
|16    |Staff-Detainee Communication                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|17    |Tool Control                                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|18    |Use of Force and Restraints                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|PART 3 ORDER                                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|19    |Disciplinary System                                                                                          |     |     |     |     |
|PART 4 CARE                                                                                                         |     |     |     |     |
|20    |Food Service                                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|21    |Hunger Strikes                                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|22    |Medical Care                                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|23    |Personal Hygiene                                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|24    |Suicide Prevention and Intervention                                                                          |     |     |     |     |
|25    |Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death                                                              |     |     |     |     |
|PART 5 ACTIVITIES                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|26    |Correspondence and Other Mail                                                                                |     |     |     |     |
|27    |Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|28    |Marriage Requests                                                                                            |     |     |     |     |
|29    |Recreation                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|30    |Religious Practices                                                                                          |     |     |     |     |
|31    |Telephone Access                                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|32    |Visitation                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|33    |Voluntary Work Program                                                                                       |     |     |     |     |
|PART 6 JUSTICE                                                                                                      |     |     |     |     |
|34    |Detainee Handbook                                                                                            |     |     |     |     |
|35    |Grievance System                                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|36    |Law Libraries and Legal Material                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|37    |Legal Rights Group Presentations                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|PART 7 ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|38    |Detention Files                                                                                              |     |     |     |     |
|39    |News Media Interviews and Tours                                                                              |     |     |     |     |
|40    |Staff Training                                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|41    |Transfer of Detainees                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |

                                                          RIC Review Assurance Statement

                                                                      [pic]

By signing below, the Reviewer-In-Charge (RIC) certifies that all findings of noncompliance with policy or inadequate controls contained in the
Inspection Report are supported by evidence that is sufficient and reliable.  Furthermore, findings of noteworthy accomplishments are supported
by sufficient and reliable evidence.  Within the scope of the review, the facility is operating in accordance with applicable law and policy,
and property and resources are efficiently used and adequately safeguarded, except for the deficiencies noted in the report.


|Reviewer-In-Charge:  (Print Name)                                          |Signature                                                                            |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|Title & Duty Location                                                      |Date                                                                                 |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |

Team Members
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                         |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                   |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                         |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                   |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                         |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                   |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                         |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                   |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                         |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                   |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                         |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                   |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |
|                                                                           |                                                                                     |



Recommended Rating:           Meets Standards
                             Does Not Meet Standards





Comments:        
MANAGEMENT REVIEW

[pic]


Review Authority


The signature below constitutes review of this report and acceptance by the Review Authority.
The Facility and FOD have 30 days from receipt of this report to respond to all findings and recommendations.


 |HQDRO MANAGEMENT REVIEW:  (Print Name)                                       |Signature                                                                            |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |
|Title                                                                        |Date                                                                                 |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |


Final Rating:     Meets Standards
            Does Not Meet Standards




Comments:        

-----------------------
[1]   Any attempted physical contact or physical contact that involves two or more offenders
[2]   Oral, anal or vaginal penetration or attempted penetration involving at least 2 parties, whether it is consenting or non-consenting
[3]   Routine transportation of detainees/offenders is not considered “forced”
[4]   Any incident that involves four or more detainees/offenders, includes gang fights, organized multiple hunger strikes, work stoppages,
      hostage situations, major fires, or other large scale incidents.




A.    Type of Facility Reviewed

      ICE Intergovernmental Service Agreement
      ICE Staging Facility (12 to 72 hours)

B.    Current Facility Review
|Type of Facility Review                                                       |
|                                                                              |
|Date[s] of Facility                                                           |
|                                                                              |


C.    Previous/Most Recent Facility Review

|Date[s] of Last Facility Review                                               |
|                                                                              |
|Previous Rating                                                               |
|Acceptable  Deficient  At-Risk                                                |

   D. Name and Location of Facility
|ICE Facility Code                                                            |
|                                                                             |
|Name                                                                         |
|                                                                             |
|Address (Street and Name)                                                    |
|                                                                             |
|City, State and Zip Code                                                     |
|                                                                             |
|County                                                                       |
|                                                                             |
|Name and Title of Facility Administrator (Warden/OIC/Superintendent)         |
|                                                                             |
|Telephone # (Include Area Code)                                              |
|                                                                             |
|Field Office / Sub-Office (List Office with oversight responsibilities)      |
|                                                                             |
|Distance from Field Office                                                   |
|                                                                             |

E.    ICE Information
|Name of Reviewer In Charge (Last , Title and Duty Station)                   |
|      /       /                                                              |
|Name of Team Member / Title / Duty Location                                  |
|      /       /                                                              |
|Name of Team Member / Title / Duty Location                                  |
|      /       /                                                              |
|Name of Team Member / Title / Duty Location                                  |
|      /       /                                                              |

F. CDF/IGSA Information Only
|Contract Number                       |Date of Contract or IGSA              |
|                                      |                                      |
|Basic Rates per Man-Day                                                      |
|                                                                             |
|Other Charges:  (If None, Indicate N/A)                                      |
|     ;      ;      ;                                                         |
|Estimated Man-days Per Year                                                  |
|                                                                             |


G. Accreditation Certificates
|List all State or National Accreditation[s] received:                        |
|                                                                             |
|  Check box if facility has no accreditation[s]                              |

H. Problems / Complaints  (Copies must be attached)
|The Facility is under Court Order or Class Action Finding                    |
|Court Order    Class Action Order                                            |
|The Facility has Significant Litigation Pending                              |
|Major Litigation    Life/Safety Issues                                       |
|  Check if None.                                                             |

I.    Facility History
|Date Built                                                                 |
|                                                                           |
|Date Last Remodeled or Upgraded                                            |
|                                                                           |
|Date New Construction / Bedspace Added                                     |
|                                                                           |
|Future Construction Planned                                                |
|Yes   No   Date:                                                           |
|Current Bedspace           |Future Bedspace (# New Beds only)              |
|                           |Number:        Date:                           |

J.    Total Facility Population
|Total Facility Intake for previous 12 months                                |
|                                                                            |
|Total ICE Mandays for Previous 12 months                                    |
|                                                                            |

K.    Classification Level  (ICE SPCs and CDFs Only)
|                           |L-1             |L-2             |L-3           |
|Adult Male                 |                |                |              |
|Adult Female               |                |                |              |

L. Facility Capacity
|                     |Rated          |Operational        |Emergency         |
|Adult Male           |               |                   |                  |
|Adult Female         |               |                   |                  |
|  Facility holds Juveniles Offenders 16 and older as Adults                 |

M.    Average Daily Population
|                           |ICE            |USMS           |Other          |
|Adult Male                 |               |               |               |
|Adult Female               |               |               |               |

N.    Facility Staffing Level
|Security:                            |Support:                             |
|                                     |                                     |

                       Significant Incident Summary Worksheet
 For ICE  to complete its Review of your facility, the following information must be completed prior to the scheduled review dates.  The
 information on this form should contain data for the past twelve months in the boxes provided.  The information on this form is used in
 conjunction with the ICE detention standards in assessing your detention operations.  This form should be filled out by the facility prior to
 the start of any inspection.  Failure to complete this section will result in a delay in processing this report.


|Incidents                            |Description                          |Jan – Mar           |Apr – Jun           |Jul – Sept          |Oct – Dec           |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |With Weapon                          |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Without Weapon                       |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Assault:                             |Types (Sexual Physical, etc.)        |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Detainee on                          |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Staff                                |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |With Weapon                          |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Without Weapon                       |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Number of Forced Moves, incl. Forced |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Cell moves[3]                        |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Disturbances[4]                      |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Number of Times Chemical Agents Used |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Number of Times Special Reaction Team|                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Deployed/Used                        |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Number/Reason (M=Medical, V=Violent  |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|# Times Four/Five Point Restraints   |Behavior, O=Other)                   |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|applied/used                         |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Type (C=Chair, B=Bed, BB=Board,      |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |O=Other)                             |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Offender / Detainee Medical Referrals|                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|as a result of injuries sustained.   |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Escapes                              |Attempted                            |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Actual                               |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Grievances:                          |                                     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |# Received                           |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |# Resolved in favor of               |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Offender/Detainee                    |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Deaths                               |Reason (V=Violent, I=Illness,        |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |S=Suicide, A=Attempted Suicide,      |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |O=Other)                             |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Number                               |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|Psychiatric / Medical Referrals      |# Medical Cases referred for Outside |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Care                                 |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |# Psychiatric Cases referred for     |                    |                    |                    |                    |
|                                     |Outside Care                         |                    |                    |                    |                    |

|DHS/ICE Detention Standards Review Summary Report                                                                                           |
|1.  Meets Standards    2. Does Not Meet Standards   3.Repeat Finding   4. Not Applicable                            |1    |2    |3    |4    |
|PART 1 SAFETY                                                                                                       |     |     |     |     |
|1    |Emergency Plans                                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|2    |Environmental Health and Safety                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|3    |Transportation (By Land)                                                                                      |     |     |     |     |
|PART 2 SECURITY                                                                                                     |     |     |     |     |
|4     |Admission and Release                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|5     |Classification System                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|6     |Contraband                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|7     |Facility Security and Control                                                                                |     |     |     |     |
|8     |Funds and Personal Property                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|9     |Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities                                                                           |     |     |     |     |
|10    |Key and Lock Control                                                                                         |     |     |     |     |
|11    |Population Counts                                                                                            |     |     |     |     |
|12    |Post Orders                                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|13    |Searches of Detainees                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|14    |Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention                                                         |     |     |     |     |
|15    |Special Management Units                                                                                     |     |     |     |     |
|16    |Staff-Detainee Communication                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|17    |Tool Control                                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|18    |Use of Force and Restraints                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|PART 3 ORDER                                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |
|19    |Disciplinary System                                                                                          |     |     |     |     |
|PART 4 CARE                                                                                                         |     |     |     |     |
|20    |Food Service                                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|21    |Hunger Strikes                                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|22    |Medical Care                                                                                                 |     |     |     |     |
|23    |Personal Hygiene                                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|24    |Suicide Prevention and Intervention                                                                          |     |     |     |     |
|25    |Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death                                                              |     |     |     |     |
|PART 5 ACTIVITIES                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|26    |Correspondence and Other Mail                                                                                |     |     |     |     |
|27    |Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|28    |Marriage Requests                                                                                            |     |     |     |     |
|29    |Recreation                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|30    |Religious Practices                                                                                          |     |     |     |     |
|31    |Telephone Access                                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|32    |Visitation                                                                                                   |     |     |     |     |
|33    |Voluntary Work Program                                                                                       |     |     |     |     |
|PART 6 JUSTICE                                                                                                      |     |     |     |     |
|34    |Detainee Handbook                                                                                            |     |     |     |     |
|35    |Grievance System                                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|36    |Law Libraries and Legal Material                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|37    |Legal Rights Group Presentations                                                                             |     |     |     |     |
|PART 7 ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT                                                                                  |     |     |     |     |
|38    |Detention Files                                                                                              |     |     |     |     |
|39    |News Media Interviews and Tours                                                                              |     |     |     |     |
|40    |Staff Training                                                                                               |     |     |     |     |
|41    |Transfer of Detainees                                                                                        |     |     |     |     |

                                                          RIC Review Assurance Statement

                                                                      [pic]

  By signing below, the Reviewer-In-Charge (RIC) certifies that all findings of noncompliance with policy or inadequate controls contained in
  the Inspection Report are supported by evidence that is sufficient and reliable.  Furthermore, findings of noteworthy accomplishments are
  supported by sufficient and reliable evidence.  Within the scope of the review, the facility is operating in accordance with applicable law
  and policy, and property and resources are efficiently used and adequately safeguarded, except for the deficiencies noted in the report.



 |Reviewer-In-Charge:  (Print Name)                                        |Signature                                                                         |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|Title & Duty Location                                                    |Date                                                                              |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |

  Team Members

|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                       |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                       |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                       |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                       |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                       |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                       |Print Name, Title, & Duty Location                                                |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |
|                                                                         |                                                                                  |






 RIC Rating Recommendation:  Meet Standards
                             Does Not Meet Standards




 Comments:      
 MANAGEMENT REVIEW

[pic]


Review Authority


The signature below constitutes review of this report and acceptance by the Review Authority.
The Facility and FOD have 30 Days from receipt of this report to respond to all findings and recommendations.


 |HQDRO MANAGEMENT REVIEW:  (Print Name)                                       |Signature                                                                            |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |
|Title                                                                        |Date                                                                                 |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |
|                                                                             |                                                                                     |



 Final Rating:    Meets Standards
            Does Not Meet Standards


 Comments:            

-----------------------
[1]   Any attempted physical contact or physical contact that involves two or more offenders
[2]   Oral, anal or vaginal penetration or attempted penetration involving at least 2 parties, whether it is consenting or non-consenting
[3]   Routine transportation of detainees/offenders is not considered “forced”
[4]   Any incident that involves four or more detainees/offenders, includes gang fights, organized multiple hunger strikes, work stoppages,
      hostage situations, major fires, or other large scale incidents.


[pic]

 | | | | | | | | |
|     |     |     |     |      |Detention and Removal Operations                                                     |                 |                                                                          |
|     |     |     |     |      |On-Site Compliance Monitoring Tool v4                                                |                 |                                                                          |
|     |     |     |     |      |Facility Name:   ______________ Month/Year:   _______                                |                 |                                                                          |
|Frequency              |      |PERFORMANCE MONITORING MEASURE                                                       |Rating A/D/R/NA  |Corrective Action Required / Comments               |Due Date             |
|D                            |W                                                                                                                                                                               |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                             |                                                                                                                                                                                |
|                                                                            |               |                 |                    |
|Average Daily Population                                                    |               |                 |                    |
|Average Daily Population- Facility                                          |               |                 |                    |
|Average Daily Population- Facility                                          |               |                 |                    |
|Average Days in Custody                                                     |               |                 |                    |
|# Detainees Received                                                        |               |                 |                    |
|# Detainees Transferred                                                     |               |                 |                    |
|Classification                                                              |               |                 |                    |
|Detainee Classification # Level 1 End of Month (EOM)                        |               |                 |                    |
|Detainee Classification # Level 2 EOM                                       |               |                 |                    |
|Detainee Classification # Level 3 EOM                                       |               |                 |                    |
|Special Management                                                          |               |                 |                    |
|Special Housing:  # Placed AS                                               |               |                 |                    |
|Special Housing:  # Placed DS                                               |               |                 |                    |
|# Temporary Beds in Use                                                     |               |                 |                    |
|Detainee Behavior - Number of Incidents                                     |               |                 |                    |
|Assaults - Detainee-on-Detainee                                             |               |                 |                    |
|Assaults - Detainee-on-Staff                                                |               |                 |                    |
|Drug- or Alcohol-related                                                    |               |                 |                    |
|Disturbances                                                                |               |                 |                    |
|Hunger Strikes                                                              |               |                 |                    |
|Escape Attempts*                                                            |               |                 |                    |
|Escapes*                                                                    |               |                 |                    |
|Suicide Attempts*                                                           |               |                 |                    |
|Deaths (Suicide, homicide, natural causes)*                                 |               |                 |                    |
|Incidents of sexual abuse or assault                                        |               |                 |                    |
|Gang related incidents                                                      |               |                 |                    |
|Hard contraband attach a summary report on types & quantities recovered     |               |                 |                    |
|Number of Detainee Grievances                                               |               |                 |                    |
|Allegations of staff misconduct                                             |               |                 |                    |
|Conditions of confinement                                                   |               |                 |                    |
|Food                                                                        |               |                 |                    |
|Medical                                                                     |               |                 |                    |
|Discipline                                                                  |               |                 |                    |
|Group Grievances                                                            |               |                 |                    |
|Number of Use of Force Incidents                                            |               |                 |                    |
|Immediate                                                                   |               |                 |                    |
|Calculated                                                                  |               |                 |                    |
|# Uses of Chemical Agents                                                   |               |                 |                    |
|# Uses of Non-Lethal Weapons                                                |               |                 |                    |
|# Uses of 4/5 Point Restraints                                              |               |                 |                    |
|Personnel                                                                   |               |                 |                    |
|Number Authorized Positions (all)                                           |               |                 |                    |
|Number Employees on Board (all)                                             |               |                 |                    |
|Number Authorized Positions - Security/Custody Staff                        |               |                 |                    |
|Number Security/Custody Staff on Board                                      |               |                 |                    |
|Other                                                                       |               |                 |                    |
|Have there been any interviews  by reporters, other news media              |               |                 |                    |
|representatives, academics and others? Attach supplemental info             |               |                 |                    |
|Has there been any positive or negative facility or detainee media coverage?|               |                 |                    |
|Attach supplemental info                                                    |               |                 |                    |
|There are weekly meetings between key ICE and facility staff Y/N            |               |                 |                    |
|Facility Quality Control Plan is in place Y/N. Attach comments if necessary |               |                 |                    |
|                                                                            |               |                 |                    |
|When the facility houses males and females complete a separate Operational Indicators section for each gender. |                    |



Field Office List - Estimated Number of Roving Compliance Reviewers 
per Field Office Area of Responsibility (AOR)
Number of facilities Field Office Number of CRs: Notes:
18.0 ATL 2.0
7.0 BAL 2.0 CR also covers WAS  
19.0 BOS 2.0
19.0 BUF 2.0
31.0 CHI 3.0
12.0 DAL 2.0 CR also covers ELP
21.0 DEN 2.0
13.0 DET 2.0
12.0 ELP Field Office Area of Responsibility covered by DAL CR
4.0 HOU 2.0 CR also covers SNA
9.0 LOS 2.0 CR covers SND + SFR
16.0 MIA 2.0
4.0 NEW 2.0 CR also covers NYC
17.0 NOL 2.0
4.0 NYC Field Office Area of Responsibility covered by NEW CR
15.0 PHI 2.0
19.0 PHO 2.0
19.0 SEA 2.0
5.0 SFR Field Office Area of Responsibility covered by LOS CR
20.0 SLC 2.0
16.0 SNA Field Office of Area Responsibility covered by HOU CR
2.0 SND Field Office Area of Responsibility covered by LOS CR
21.0 SPM 2.0
10.0 WAS Field Office Area of Responsibility covered by BAL CR
333.0 37.0




                                              PERFORMANCE BASED NATIONAL DETENTION STANDARDS (PBNDS)
                                  TENATIVE PHASE-IN SCHEDULE




April 1, 2009    On-Site Compliance Reviewers and Annual Reviewers will begin using new PBNDS for ICE Service Processing Centers (SPC)

June 1, 2009     Implementation of PBNDS at Contract Detention Facilities (CDF)

January 1, 2010  On-Site Compliance Reviewers and Annual Reviewers will begin using new PBNDS for Contract Detention Facilities (CDF)
                       Implementation of PBNDS at Inter Governmental Service Agreements (IGSA) Facilities

July 1, 2010     On-Site Compliance Reviewers and Annual Reviewers will begin using new PBNDS for IGSA Facilities




                                                  Condition of Confinement Inspection Worksheet
                                      (This document must be attached to each G-324B Detention Review Form)
                                    This Form is to be used for Inspections of Facilities Used Under 72 Hours
                                                                      [pic]

                                                                      [pic]
                                                  Performance-Based National Detention Standards
                                                Inspection Worksheet for Under 72 Hour Facilities

      Intergovernmental Service Agreement (IGSA)
      ICE Service Processing Center (SPC)
      ICE Contract Detention Facility (CDF)
|Name                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Address (Street and Name)                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|City, State and Zip Code                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|County                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and Title of Chief Executive Officer (Warden/OIC/Superintendent/Facility Administrator))                                              |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and title of Reviewer-In-Charge                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Date[s] of Review                                                                                                                          |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Type of Review                                                                                                                             |
|Headquarters  Operational Special Assessment Other                                                                                         |


                                                                Table of Contents


PART 1      SAFETY
      1     Emergency Plans
      2     Environmental Health and Safety
      3     Transportation (By Land)

PART 2      SECURITY
      4     Admission and Release
      5     Classification System
      6     Contraband
      7     Facility Security and Control
      8     Funds and Personal Property
      9     Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
      10    Key and Lock Control
      11    Population Counts
      12    Post Orders
      13    Searches of Detainees
      14    Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
      15    Special Management Units
      16    Staff-Detainee Communication
      17    Tool Control
      18    Use of Force and Restraints

PART 3      ORDER
      19    Disciplinary System

PART 4      CARE
      20    Food Service
      21    Hunger Strikes
      22    Medical Care
      23    Personal Hygiene
      24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
      25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

PART 5      ACTIVITIES
      26    Correspondence and Other Mail
      27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
      28    Marriage Requests
      29    Recreation
      30    Religious Practices
      31    Telephone Access
      32    Visitation
      33    Voluntary Work Program

PART 6      JUSTICE
      34    Detainee Handbook
      35    Grievance System
      36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
      37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

PART 7      ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
      38    Detention Files
      39    News Media Interviews and Tours
      40    Staff Training
      41    Transfer of Detainees
Introduction and Overview to the G324B Under 72 Hour Facility Detention Inspection Worksheets

What is “Performance-Based”?

Unlike “policy and procedures” that focus solely on what is to be done, performance-based policy starts with a focus on the results or outcomes
the required procedures are expected to accomplish.  Each National Detention Standard has been revised to produce Expected Outcomes that are
clearly stated. Each standard reflects the overall mission and purpose of the agency and contributes to the goal that has been articulated.

Expected Practices found in the National Detention Standards (NDS) represent what is to be done to accomplish the Expected Outcomes that will
meet the Purpose and Scope of the Detention Standard.

Outcome Measures (key indicators) are what is looked at to know whether (or how well) what a facility is accomplishing contributes to the
outcomes expected.

The original 38 NDS have been revised into 41 performance-based standards. During the development four new standards were added to include: News
Media, Searches of Detainees, Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention and Staff Training.  The two standards on Special Management
Units were condensed into one standard.  The new performance-based standards have incorporated American Correctional Association (ACA) Adult
Local Detention Facility standards, which are the industry benchmark.

Worksheet Overview

There are two sets of Detention Review Worksheets that are used to assess compliance with the National Detention Standards (NDS). Both sets of
these worksheets are derived from the policy and procedures set forth in the NDS. The G324A is for use with the facilities that house detainees
for over 72 hours, while the G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees for under 72 hours.

The G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees under 72 hours and it does not contain as many requirements as the G324A on the
following NDS: Correspondence and Other Mail, Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies, Law Libraries and Legal Material, Legal Rights Group
Presentations, Marriage Requests, Recreation, and Voluntary Work Program. These standards were not included in the prior version of the G324B
due to the short term nature of the detention in facilities that are used for 72 hours or less. These sections are now included in the G324B but
only to the extent that facilities seek applicability and are not mandated by ICE. For example, voluntary work programs are not required, but if
detainees work, compliance with the NDS is required.

Mandatory components in several of the standards have been indicated in the worksheets. Mandatory items are those which must be met in order  for
the facility to receive a Meets Standards rating for that standard. These mandatory components typically represent life safety  issues.   A  Does
Not Meet Standards on one of these components is very serious.  Failing to meet one of the mandatory components means that the  overall  facility
review rating will be Does Not Meet Standards. There are no mandatory components in the G324B.



The Outcome Measures Worksheet section is completely new for the performance-based NDS. The Outcome Measures  Worksheets  will  be  completed  by
facility staff prior to arrival of the review team. Ideally, this information will be maintained on a continuous basis by the  facility  as  part
of a key indicators database to provide a perpetual record for monitoring  facility  performance.  The  Reviewer  in  Charge  (RIC)  will  review
facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and trends.



Worksheet Completion

Reviewers are required to complete each item of each section of the G324A and G324B Detention Review Worksheets.  Worksheets  are  in  a  uniform
format with 5 columns  with NDS purpose and scope cited at the top of the worksheet.  Column 1 contains the NDS  standard  assessment  component.
Columns 2-4 are provided for the ratings assigned to each component that is assessed. While there is a column titled N/A or not  applicable,  the
N/A rating should be used rarely and only when applicable. The remarks section is provided for reviewers to include details on each  rating  that
may raise a question such as the “Does Not Meet Standard” or “N/A” ratings.

A Remarks section is also provided at the end of the outcome measures section for summary comments and analysis of  outcome  measures  data.  The
information included in the worksheet components remarks sections and in the final summary remarks section should be considered for inclusion  in
the reviewer report that summarizes the overall facility review process.



Outcome Measures Completion

The Outcome Measures Worksheets will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the  review  team.  Ideally,  this  information  will  be
maintained on a continuous basis by the facility as part of a key indicators database to provide  a  perpetual  record  for  monitoring  facility
performance.  Data should be verified as accurate by the facility before including it in the  database.  Outcome  measure  data  is  intended  to
assess facility issues related to the NDS, so care should be taken to focus on ICE related issues. For example when computing the  average  daily
population (ADP), assess and provide information on the ICE population.

The RIC will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to  describe  facility  performance  and  trends.  In  a  few
instances outcome measures are not provided for some the NDS because after careful consideration of the standard the assessment process has  been
determined to be more process oriented in nature.





Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 1 SAFETY

1      Emergency Plans
2      Environmental Health and Safety
3      Transportation (By Land)

|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively respond to  |
|any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|No Detainee or detainee groups exercise control or        authority over     |        |            |       |                                              |
|other detainees.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are protected from:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal abuse                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal injury                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disease                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Property damage                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Harassment from other detainees                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive training in the emergency plans              during their  |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation training as well as during             their annual training.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains a list of translator services in          the event   |        |            |       |                                              |
|one is needed during a hostage crisis.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency Plans include a procedure for handling detainees with special needs|        |            |       |                                              |
|during an emergency   or evacuation.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover:                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Work/Food Strike                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental Hazard                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE-wide Lockdown                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff Work Stoppage                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disturbances                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escapes                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bomb Threats                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adverse Weather                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Internal Searches                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Evacuation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Transportation System Plan                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostages (Internal)                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Civil Disturbances                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors from injury and illness by maintaining high facility standards of           |
|cleanliness and sanitation, safe work practices, and control of hazardous substances and equipment.                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Facility appears clean and well maintained.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system for insuring safe use, storing, issuing, and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|maintaining inventories of flammable, toxic and hazardous materials.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant inventories are maintained for all     flammable, toxic, and caustic|        |            |       |                                              |
|substances used / stored in each section of the facility.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The manufacturer’s Material Safety Data Sheet               (MSDS) file is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|up-to-date for every hazardous                  substance used.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The files list all storage areas, and include a plant           diagram and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|legend.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDSs and other information in the files are            available to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|personnel managing the facility’s safety        program.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All personnel using flammable, toxic, and/or caustic        substances follow|        |            |       |                                              |
|the prescribed procedures:                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Wear personal protective equipment.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report hazards and spills to the designated official.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDSs are readily accessible to staff and                detainees in the|        |            |       |                                              |
|work areas.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hazardous materials are always issued under proper supervision.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Quantities are limited.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff always supervises detainees using these                substances.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All "flammable” and “combustible" materials (liquid        and aerosol) are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|stored and used according to label       recommendations.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility conforms to applicable federal, state, and/or local fire safety |        |            |       |                                              |
|codes. The authority having jurisdiction documents compliance.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has an approved fire prevention, control, and evacuation plan.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts the fire and safety inspections.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire drills are conducted and documented quarterly.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures regulate the handling and                 disposal of used|        |            |       |                                              |
|needles and other sharp objects.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard cleaning practices include:                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using specified equipment; cleansers; disinfectants        and detergents.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|An established schedule of cleaning and follow-up          inspections.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A licensed/certified/trained pest-control professional      inspects for     |        |            |       |                                              |
|rodents, insects, and vermin.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least monthly.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The pest-control program includes preventive                 spraying for    |        |            |       |                                              |
|indigenous insects.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drinking water and wastewater is routinely tested            according to a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|fixed schedule.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency power generators are tested at least             every two weeks.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Other emergency systems and equipment receive          testing at least      |        |            |       |                                              |
|quarterly.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Testing is followed-up with timely corrective actions        (repairs and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|replacements).                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard prevents harm to the general public, detainees, and staff by ensuring that vehicles are properly equipped, maintained, and operated|
|and that detainees are transported in a secure, safe and humane manner, under the supervision of trained and experienced staff.                            |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Transportation are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the detainee case.             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers comply with applicable local,        state, and federal|        |            |       |                                              |
|motor vehicle laws and regulations.  Records support this finding of         |        |            |       |                                              |
|compliance.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every transporting officer required to drive a                 commercial    |        |            |       |                                              |
|size vehicle has a valid Commercial Driver's   License (CDL) issued by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|state of employment.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervisors maintain records for each vehicle              operator.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating annual inspection of vehicles and annual inspection |        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with state statutes, is available for review.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating safety repairs are completed immediately and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicles are not used until they have been repaired and inspected is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for review.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers use a checklist during every vehicle inspection.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers report deficiencies affecting operability.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deficiencies are corrected before the vehicle goes      back into service.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All transport officers will maintain a driving log                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Limit driving time to 10 hours in any 15 hour period      when transporting  |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive only after eight consecutive off-duty hours.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not receive transportation assignments after having been on duty, in any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity, for 15 hours.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive a 50-hour maximum in a given work week; a 70- hour maximum during eight|        |            |       |                                              |
|consecutive days.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|During emergency conditions (including bad weather), officers may drive as   |        |            |       |                                              |
|long as necessary and safe to     reach a safe area(exceeding the 10-hour    |        |            |       |                                              |
|limit.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two officers with valid Commercial Drivers Licenses,   (CDL’s) required in   |        |            |       |                                              |
|any vehicle transporting detainees.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|When buses travel in tandem with detainees, there two qualified officers per |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|An unaccompanied driver transports an empty vehicle.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The transporting officer inspects the vehicle before the start of each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detail.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Positive identification of all detainees being transported is confirmed.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are searched immediately prior to            boarding the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle by staff controlling the bus or        vehicle.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility ensures that the number of detainees         transported does   |        |            |       |                                              |
|not exceed the vehicle                       manufacturer’s occupancy level. |        |            |       |                                              |
|All ICE uniformed officers wear their ICE issued body armor in accordance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the ICE Body Armor policy    when transporting detainees.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew conducts a visual count once all        passengers are on   |        |            |       |                                              |
|board and seated.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional visual counts are made whenever the           vehicle makes a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|scheduled or unscheduled stop.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policies and procedures are in place addressing the    use of restraining    |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment on transportation             vehicles.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers ensure that no one contacts the detainees.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|One officer remains in the vehicle at all times when      detainees are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|present.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meals are provided during long distance transfers.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The meals meet the minimum dietary standards, as     identified by dieticians|        |            |       |                                              |
|utilized by the ICE.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew inspects all Food Service meals before accepting delivery   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(food wrapping, portions,      quality, quantity, thermos-transport          |        |            |       |                                              |
|containers, etc.).                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before accepting the meals, the vehicle crew raises     and resolves         |        |            |       |                                              |
|questions, concerns, or discrepancies     with the Food Service              |        |            |       |                                              |
|representative.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Basins, latrines, and drinking-water                               containers|        |            |       |                                              |
|/ dispensers are cleaned and sanitized on a fixed schedule.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicles have:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two-way radios.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cellular telephones.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment boxes stocked in accordance with the Use       of Force Standard.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment appropriate and necessary for transporting detainees with physical |        |            |       |                                              |
|disabilities.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicles are clean and sanitary at all times.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal property of a detainee transferring to another        facility:     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inventoried.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inspected.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accompanies the detainee.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following contingencies are included in the written        procedures for|        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle crews:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attack                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escape                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostage-taking                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee sickness                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee death                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle fire                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Riot                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Traffic accident                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Mechanical problems                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Natural disasters                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Severe weather                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Passenger list is not exclusively men or   women or             minors       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |


                                     Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard       N/A         Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 2 SECURITY
4      Admission and Release
5       Classification System
6       Contraband
7       Facility Security and Control
8       Funds and Personal Property
9       Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
10    Key and Lock Control
11     Population Counts
12     Post Orders
13     Searches of Detainees
14     Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
15     Special Management Units
16     Staff-Detainee Communication
17     Tool Control
18     Use of Force and Restraints


|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors by ensuring secure and orderly operations when detainees are |
|admitted to or released from a facility.                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Admissions processing includes an orientation of the facility.  The          |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation includes; Unacceptable         activities and behavior, and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|corresponding sanctions. How to contact ICE. The availability of pro bono    |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal services, and how to pursue such services. Schedule of programs,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|services, daily activities, including visitation, telephone usage, mail      |        |            |       |                                              |
|service, religious programs, count procedures, access to and use of the law  |        |            |       |                                              |
|library and the general library; sick-call procedures, etc., and the detainee|        |            |       |                                              |
|handbook.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical screenings are performed by medical staff   or persons who have      |        |            |       |                                              |
|received specialized training for the purpose of conducting an initial health|        |            |       |                                              |
|screening.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When available, accompanying documentation is     used to identify and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|classify each new arrival.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new arrivals are searched in accordance with the “Detainee Search”       |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard.  An officer of the same sex as the detainee conducts the search and|        |            |       |                                              |
|the      search is conducted in an area that affords as much privacy as      |        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff shall not routinely strip search a detainee as     part of the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|admission process, unless there is           reasonable belief or suspicion  |        |            |       |                                              |
|that the individual may be concealing a weapon or other contraband.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The “Contraband” standard governs all personal       property searches.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|IGSAs use a similar contraband standard.  Staff prepare a complete inventory |        |            |       |                                              |
|of each detainee’s possessions.  The detainee receives a copy.  All identity |        |            |       |                                              |
|documents are inventoried and given to ICE/DRO staff for placement in the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|A-file. All funds and valuables are safeguarded in accordance with ICE       |        |            |       |                                              |
|policy.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes Form I-387 or similar form for CDFs and IGSAs for every lost |        |            |       |                                              |
|or missing property claim.   Facilities forward all I-387 claims to ICE.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are issued appropriate and sufficient        clothing and bedding  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for the climatic conditions.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|All releases are coordinated with the ICE office of     jurisdiction.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system to maintain accurate           records and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation for admission,                orientation, and release.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All orientation material shall be provided in English,  Spanish, and the most|        |            |       |                                              |
|prevalent language(s) spoken by detainees at the facility.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The admissions process is conducted in a language or manner the detainee     |        |            |       |                                              |
|understands.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date






































|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm, and contributes to orderly facility           |
|operations, by requiring a formal classification process for managing and separating detainees that is based on verifiable and documented data.            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility uses an objective classification system or similar system for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|classifying detainees.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility classification system includes:                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classifying detainees upon arrival.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Separating individuals who cannot be classified upon arrival from the general|        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The first-line supervisor or designated classification  specialist reviewing |        |            |       |                                              |
|every classification decision.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing assignments are based on classification-     level.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility will have a visual system (uniform, ID       etc.) for          |        |            |       |                                              |
|identifying detainees by level of                     classification.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date






















|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by identifying, detecting, controlling, and properly    |
|disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility follows a written procedure for handling illegal contraband.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff inventories, holds, and reports it when necessary to the proper        |        |            |       |                                              |
|authority for action/possible seizure.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon admittance, detainees receive notification of contraband rules and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures in the Detainee Handbook                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 7. FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, staff, contractors, volunteers, and detainees from harm by ensuring that facility security is maintained   |
|and that events that pose a risk of harm are prevented.                                                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator or assistant administrator    and department heads|        |            |       |                                              |
|visit living quarters and activity areas weekly.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least one male and one female staff are on duty    where both males and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|females are housed.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Essential posts and positions are filled with qualified  personnel.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy restricts staff access to the Control Center.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees do not have access to the Control Center.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The front-entrance officer checks the ID of everyone  entering or exiting the|        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All visits officially recorded in a visitor logbook or       electronically  |        |            |       |                                              |
|recorded.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers thoroughly search each vehicle entering and leaving the facility.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a comprehensive security inspection  policy.  The policy    |        |            |       |                                              |
|specifies:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Posts to be inspected                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Required inspection forms                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Frequency of inspections                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guidelines for checking security features                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures for reporting weak spots, in-                   consistencies, and|        |            |       |                                              |
|other areas needing improvement                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every officer is required to conduct a security check  of his/her assigned   |        |            |       |                                              |
|area.  The results are                  documented.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation of security inspections is kept on file.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An officer is assigned responsibility for ensuring the security inspection   |        |            |       |                                              |
|process covers all areas of the    facility.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees’ personal property is safeguarded and controlled, specifically including funds, valuables, baggage and other|
|personnel property, and that contraband does not enter a detention facility.                                                                               |
|Standard NA:  (IGSA ONLY) Check this box if all ICE detainee Funds, Valuables and Property are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in       |
|control of the detainee case.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainee funds and valuables are properly                separated and stored|        |            |       |                                              |
|away.  Detainee funds and     valuables are accessible to designated         |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor(s) only.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees’ large valuables are secured in a location accessible to designated|        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor(s) or processing staff only.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches and itemizes the personal property of detainees, including    |        |            |       |                                              |
|funds and valuables, using a     personal property inventory form that meets |        |            |       |                                              |
|the ICE standard, in the presence of the detainee unless       otherwise     |        |            |       |                                              |
|instructed by the facility administrator.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff forwards an arriving detainee’s medicine to the medical staff.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches arriving detainees and their personal property for contraband.|        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a written policy for returning forgotten          property to       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees and staff follows procedures.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility disposes of abandoned property in          accordance with      |        |            |       |                                              |
|written procedures. Written             procedure requires the prompt        |        |            |       |                                              |
|forwarding of             abandoned property to ICE.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard operating procedure shall include obtaining a forwarding address    |        |            |       |                                              |
|from every detainee who has personal property that could be lost or forgotten|        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility after the detainee’s release, transfer, or removal.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date





|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures the safety, security, and comfort of detainees temporarily held in Hold Rooms pending further processing.  The maximum     |
|aggregate time an individual may be confined in a facility’s Hold Room is 12 hours.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The hold room is situated in a location within the       secure perimeter.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms are clean, in good repair, well          ventilated, well lit,|        |            |       |                                              |
|and all activating switches located outside the room.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms contain sufficient seating for the       number of detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|held.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|No bunks/cots/beds or other related make shift         sleeping apparatuses  |        |            |       |                                              |
|are permitted inside hold        rooms.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hold room walls and ceilings are escape and tamper resistant.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not held in hold rooms for more than  12 hours.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Male and females are segregated from each other at all times.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided with basic personal hygiene items such as water, soap,|        |            |       |                                              |
|toilet paper, cups for       water, feminine hygiene items, diapers and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|wipes.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are given a pat down search for           weapons or contraband|        |            |       |                                              |
|before being placed in the    room.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
| When the last detainee has been removed , the hold   room is inspected for  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the following:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cleaning.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Evidence of tampering with doors, locks, windows,   grills, plumbing or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|electrical fixtures is reported to the shift supervisor for corrective action|        |            |       |                                              |
|or repair.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a written evacuation plan.There is a designated officer to remove   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees from the hold rooms in case of fire and/or building evacuation, or |        |            |       |                                              |
|other emergency.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Family units, persons of advanced age (over 70),     females with children,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and unaccompanied juvenile  detainees (under the age of 18) are not placed in|        |            |       |                                              |
|hold rooms.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Minors (under 18) are confined apart from adults,     except for immediate   |        |            |       |                                              |
|relatives or guardians.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detention facility maintains a detention log        (manually or by     |        |            |       |                                              |
|computer) for each detainee placed in a hold room cell.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers provide a meal to any detainee detained      more than six hours.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Juveniles, babies and pregnant women have access to snacks, milk or juice.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meal are served to juveniles regardless of time in     custody               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The maximum occupancy for the hold room will be   posted.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before placing a detainee in a room, an officer shall observe each individual|        |            |       |                                              |
|to screen for obvious mental or physical problems.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff do not permit detainees to smoke in a hold      room.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers closely supervise hold rooms through direct supervision, which      |        |            |       |                                              |
|involves:                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Continuous auditory monitoring, even when the hold room is not in the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|officer’s direct line of sight, and                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visual monitoring at irregular intervals at least every 15 minutes, each time|        |            |       |                                              |
|recording in the detention log, the time and officer's printed name and any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unusual behavior or complaints under "Comments.”                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant surveillance of any detainee exhibiting       signs of hostility,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|depression, or similar behaviors.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |


                                     Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A           Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard maintains facility safety and security by requiring that keys and locks be properly controlled and maintained.                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a key and lock control program.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility policies and procedures address the issue of compromised keys and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|locks.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Padlocks and/or chains are not used on cell doors.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures in place to ensure that key rings are:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Identifiable                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Numbers of keys on the ring are cited?                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Keys cannot be removed from issued key rings                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency keys are available for all areas of the     facility.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Authorization is necessary to issue any restricted      key.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Individual gun lockers are provided.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|They are located in an area that permits constant     officer observation.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|In an area that does not allow detainee or public       access.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff members are trained and held responsible   for adhering to proper  |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures for the handling of keys.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Issued keys are returned immediately in the event an employee inadvertently  |        |            |       |                                              |
|carries a key ring home.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a key or key ring is lost, misplaced, or not       accounted for, the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor is immediately notified.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not permitted to handle keys assigned to staff.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard protects the community from harm and enhances facility security, safety, and good order by requiring that each facility have an    |
|ongoing, effective system of population counts and detainee accountability.                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Staff conduct a formal count at least once each shift.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Activities cease or are strictly controlled while a         formal count is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|being conducted.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Formal counts in all units take place simultaneously.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers do not allow detainee participation in the      count.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers positively identify each detainee before        counting him/her as |        |            |       |                                              |
|present.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A system for counting each detainee, including those who are outside of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|housing unit has been  developed.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover informal and emergency   counts.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The control officer (or other designated position)       maintains an        |        |            |       |                                              |
|“out-count” record of all detainees        temporarily out of the facility.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers and any other staff with                    responsibilities for    |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducting counts are provided    adequate initial and periodic training in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|count             procedures, and that training is documented in each        |        |            |       |                                              |
|person’s training folder.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by ensuring that each officer assigned to a security    |
|post knows the procedures, duties, and responsibilities of that post.                                                                                      |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Every fixed post has a set of post orders.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One individual or department is responsible for         keeping all post     |        |            |       |                                              |
|orders current with revisions that      take place between reviews.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Review, updating, and reissuing of post orders          occurs regularly and |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least annually.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures keep post orders and logbooks secure   from detainees at all      |        |            |       |                                              |
|times.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Anyone assigned to an armed post qualifies with the post weapons before      |        |            |       |                                              |
|assuming post duty.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Post orders for armed posts provide instructions for  escape attempts.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The post orders for housing units track the daily        event schedule.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The post orders include instructions on maintaining  logbooks.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by detecting, controlling, and properly disposing of    |
|contraband.                                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Written facility policy and procedures governing        searches of housing  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and work areas and of               detainees.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided a receipt for any property      confiscated during a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|search.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written facility policy and procedures require staff to employ the least     |        |            |       |                                              |
|intrusive method of body search     practicable, as indicated by the type of |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband    and the method of suspected introduction or                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|concealment.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written facility policy and procedures require staff to avoid unnecessary    |        |            |       |                                              |
|force during searches and to       preserve the dignity of the detainee being|        |            |       |                                              |
|searched, to the extent practicable.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Strip Searches are conducted only when there is      reasonable belief or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspicion that contraband may  be concealed on the person, or a good         |        |            |       |                                              |
|opportunity   for concealment has occurred, and, where required, when        |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly authorized by a supervisor and           documented on a G-1025 or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|equivalent.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Body cavity searches are conducted by designated   health personnel only when|        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized by the facility administrator (or acting administrator) on the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|basis of reasonable belief or suspicion that contraband may be concealed in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or on the detainee’s person.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Canines are not used in the presence of detainees.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2– 14. SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard requires that facilities that house ICE/DRO detainees affirmatively act to prevent sexual abuse and assaults on detainees, provide |
|prompt and effective intervention and treatment for victims of sexual abuse and assault, and control, discipline, and prosecute the perpetrators of sexual |
|abuse and assault.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a Sexual Abuse and Assault              Prevention and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intervention Program.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained, during orientation and in annual refresher training,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the prevention and intervention areas required by the Detention Standard. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the program in the facility orientation and the |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee handbook (or equivalent).                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Sexual Assault Awareness Notice is posted on  all housing unit bulletin  |        |            |       |                                              |
|boards.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All records associated with claims of sexual abuse or assault are maintained,|        |            |       |                                              |
|and such incidents are     specifically logged and tracked by a designated   |        |            |       |                                              |
|staff coordinator.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                       |


                                      Acceptable       Deficient              At-Risk          Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm by segregating certain detainees from the general  |
|population in Special Management Units (SMUs) with an Administrative Segregation section for detainees segregated for administrative reasons and a         |
|Disciplinary Segregation section for detainees segregated for disciplinary reasons.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has policy/procedure for special              management units. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in protective custody status in  Administrative         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Segregation only when there is         documentation that it is warranted and|        |            |       |                                              |
|that no         reasonable alternatives are available. Each facility  will   |        |            |       |                                              |
|develop procedures to consider continued         placement in protective     |        |            |       |                                              |
|custody as well as provisions for release from protective custody when       |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation only after a finding by a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|high level disciplinary hearing      panel or disciplinary hearing officer   |        |            |       |                                              |
|that the detainee is guilty of a high level prohibited act or rule violation.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Health care personnel are immediately informed when a detainee is admitted to|        |            |       |                                              |
|an SMU to provide assessment and review as indicated by health care protocols|        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures to control    and secure SMU         |        |            |       |                                              |
|entrances, contraband, tools, and  food carts, in accordance with the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention              Standard on Facility Security and Control.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The number of detainees confined to each cell or     room does not exceed the|        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity for which it was  designed.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cells and rooms are well ventilated, adequately lit,    appropriately heated |        |            |       |                                              |
|and maintained in a sanitary     condition at all times.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Permanent housing logs are maintained in SMUs to record pertinent information|        |            |       |                                              |
|on detainees upon         admission to and release from the unit, and in     |        |            |       |                                              |
|which supervisory staff and other officials record their visits to the unit. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A permanent log is maintained in each SMU to         record all activities   |        |            |       |                                              |
|concerning SMU detainees          (meals served, recreation, visitors, etc.).|        |            |       |                                              |
|A Special Management Housing Unit Record is         maintained on each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee in an SMU.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator (or designee) visits each     SMU daily.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A health care provider visits every detainee in an      SMU at least three   |        |            |       |                                              |
|times a week, and detainees are provided any medications prescribed for them.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are provided three nutritionally    adequate meals per day,|        |            |       |                                              |
|ordinarily from the general population menu.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs may shave and shower three      times weekly and receive   |        |            |       |                                              |
|other basic services           (laundry, hair care, barbering, clothing,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding,       linen) on the same basis as the general population.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU may write and receive letters   the same as the general  |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU ordinarily retain visiting            privileges.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in SMUs are not denied legal    visitation.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are allowed visits by members of the clergy, upon request, |        |            |       |                                              |
|unless it is determined a    visit presents a risk to safety, security, or   |        |            |       |                                              |
|orderly       operations.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs have access to reading               materials, including  |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious materials                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Administrative Segregation or            Disciplinary           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Segregation have the same law library access as the general population,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|unless compelling and documented security concerns require                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|limitations.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation for detainees in the SMU is separate       from the general       |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the SMU are offered at least one hour  of recreation per day,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|scheduled at a reasonable      time, at least five days per week.  Where     |        |            |       |                                              |
|cover is     not provided to mitigate inclement weather,                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are provided weather-appropriate              equipment and attire.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in Administrative Segregation have telephone access    |        |            |       |                                              |
|similar to detainees in the general population, in a manner consistent with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the special security and safety requirements of an SMU.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Disciplinary Segregation may be        restricted from using    |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephones to make general     calls as part of the disciplinary process;    |        |            |       |                                              |
|however,     ordinarily, they are permitted to make direct and/or   free and |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal calls as described in the Detention      Standard on Telephone Access, |        |            |       |                                              |
|except for              compelling and documented reasons of safety,         |        |            |       |                                              |
|security, and good order.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility will develop procedures to allow             detainees to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|retain religious items within their            possession consistent with    |        |            |       |                                              |
|good security practices   (e.g., religious wearing apparel, religious        |        |            |       |                                              |
|headwear, prayer rugs, and beads, prayer rocks, and                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|medalions).                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephone access for legal calls will be provided,      including calls to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|attorneys, other legal                       representatives, courts,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|government offices               (including the Office of the Inspector      |        |            |       |                                              |
|General, Office for Civil rights, and Civil Liberties, DHS Joint Intake      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Center, and DHS Office of Internal Audit), and          embassies or         |        |            |       |                                              |
|consulates, according to the facility     schedule.  Any denial of telephone |        |            |       |                                              |
|access will be      documented.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard enhances security, safety, and orderly facility operations by encouraging and requiring informal direct and written contact among  |
|staff and detainees, as well as informal supervisory observation of living and working conditions.                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|It also requires the posting of Hotline informational posters from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General.                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The ICE/DRO Field Office Director ensures that        weekly announced and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|unannounced visits occur.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Scheduled visits are posted in ICE/DRO detainee     areas.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visiting ICE staff observe and note current climate    and conditions of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|confinement.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO Detainee Request Forms are available  for use by ICE/DRO detainees.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility treats detainee correspondence to           ICE/DRO staff as    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special Correspondence.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO detainees are notified in writing upon         admission to the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility of their right to correspond   with ICE/DRO staff regarding their   |        |            |       |                                              |
|case or conditions of confinement. Detainees will be advised how to contact  |        |            |       |                                              |
|local ICE personnel.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|OIG Hotline informational posters are mounted in all appropriate common areas|        |            |       |                                              |
|(recreation, dining, etc.)  and, in SPCs and CDFs, all housing areas.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Daily telephone serviceability checks are                   documented in the|        |            |       |                                              |
|housing unit logbook.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff should provide general information to detainees pertaining to the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|immigration court process.  At a minimum, this information should include the|        |            |       |                                              |
|types of hearings such as master calendar and merits hearings.  Legal advice |        |            |       |                                              |
|will not be provided by ICE/DRO staff.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






  |PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, and volunteers from harm and contributes to orderly facility operations by maintaining     |
|control of tools, culinary utensils, and medical and dental instruments, equipment, and supplies.                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|There is an individual who is responsible for developing a tool control      |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedure and an inspection system to insure accountability.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The use of tools, keys, medical equipment, and culinary equipment is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|controlled.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A metal or plastic chit is taken in exchange for all      tools issued, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|when a tool is issued from a           shadow board the receipt chit shall be|        |            |       |                                              |
|visible on the shadow board.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a tool classification system. Tools     are classified      |        |            |       |                                              |
|according to:                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restricted (dangerous/hazardous)                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non Restricted (non-hazardous).                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility has procedures for the issuance of tools to staff and          |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard authorizes staff to use necessary force after all reasonable efforts to otherwise resolve a situation have failed, for protection  |
|of all persons; to minimize injury to self, detainees, staff, and others for prevention of escape or serious property damage, or to maintain the security  |
|and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a Use of Force        policy.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy authorizes staff to respond in an                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediate-use-of-force situation without a                 supervisor’s      |        |            |       |                                              |
|presence or direction.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility subscribes to the prescribed                    Confrontation   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Avoidance Procedures.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee must be forcibly moved and/or       restrained and there is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|time for a calculated use of    force, staff use the Use-of-Force Team       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Technique.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff members are trained in the performance of the Use-of-Force Continuum to|        |            |       |                                              |
|include the use of           deadly force and the Use of ForceTeam Technique.|        |            |       |                                              |
|All use-of-force incidents are documented and          reviewed.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All use of force incidents are properly documented and forwarded for review; |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediate use of force documentation at a minimum, shall include the medical |        |            |       |                                              |
|examination through the conclusion of the incident.  All calculated uses of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|force incidents must be audio visually recorded in its entirety from the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|beginning of the incident to its conclusion.  Any breaks in recording, e.g., |        |            |       |                                              |
|dead batteries, tape exhausted, are fully explained on the video             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff:                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Does not use force as punishment.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attempts to gain the detainee's voluntary                   cooperation      |        |            |       |                                              |
|before resorting to force                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses only as much force as necessary to control the detainee.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses restraints only when other non-confrontational means, including verbal  |        |            |       |                                              |
|persuasion, have failed or    are impractical.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medication may only be used for restraint purposes  when authorized by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Authority as             medically necessary.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use-of-Force Teams follow written  procedures that attempt to prevent injury |        |            |       |                                              |
|and exposure to communicable disease(s).                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees subjected to use of force shall be seen by medical staff as soon as|        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In immediate-use-of-force situations, officers contact medical staff once the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is under control.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the Facility Administrator authorizes use of non-lethal weapons:        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff is consulted before staff use pepper     spray/non-lethal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|weapons.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff review the detainee's medical file          before use of a    |        |            |       |                                              |
|non-lethal weapon is authorized.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intermediate Force Weapons, when not in use are    stored in areas where     |        |            |       |                                              |
|access is limited to authorized personnel and to which detainees have no     |        |            |       |                                              |
|access.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special precautions are taken when restraining         pregnant detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical personnel are               consulted.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff documents every use of force and/or non-        routine application of |        |            |       |                                              |
|restraints. A written report shall be provided to the shift supervisor by    |        |            |       |                                              |
|each officer     involved in the use of force by the end of the officer’s    |        |            |       |                                              |
|shift.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new officers must receive substantive training      during their first   |        |            |       |                                              |
|year of employment.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All officers receive training in self-defense,                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|confrontation-avoidance techniques and the use of   force to control         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff authorized to use OC spray receives training not only in its use,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|but also in the decontamination of individuals exposed to it. This training  |        |            |       |                                              |
|must be          documented in the staff members training record.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff will be trained in the operation of audiovisual     recording          |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment. There will be a sufficient          number of cameras             |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriately located and           maintained in the facility.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 3 ORDER


19 Disciplinary System

|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard promotes a safe and orderly living environment for detainees by establishing a fair and equitable disciplinary system, requiring   |
|detainees to comply with facility rules and regulations, and imposing disciplinary sanctions to those who do not comply.                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written disciplinary system using        progressive      |        |            |       |                                              |
|levels of reviews and appeals.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility rules state that disciplinary action shall not be capricious or |        |            |       |                                              |
|retaliatory.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written rules prohibit staff from imposing or permitting the following       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanctions:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|deviations from normal food service                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing deprivation                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding deprivation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|denial of personal hygiene items                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|loss of correspondence privileges                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|deprivation of physical exercise                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The rules of conduct, sanctions, and procedures for     violations are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|defined in writing and communicated to  all detainees verbally and in        |        |            |       |                                              |
|writing.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following items are conspicuously posted in           Spanish and English|        |            |       |                                              |
|or other dominate languages used in the facility:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and Responsibilities                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited Acts                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Severity Scale                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sanctions                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When minor rule violations or prohibited acts occur,     informal resolutions|        |            |       |                                              |
|are encouraged.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written procedures for appealing disciplinary decisions.  All      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are given a copy of these       procedures.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 4 CARE


20    Food Service
21    Hunger Strikes
22    Medical Care
23    Personal Hygiene
24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees are provided a nutritionally balanced diet that is prepared and presented in a sanitary and hygienic food   |
|service operation.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The food service program is under the direct             supervision of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|trained staff.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Knife cabinets close with an approved locking device and staff maintain      |        |            |       |                                              |
|control of the key that locks the device.  Knives and keys are inventoried   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and stored in accordance with the Detention Standard on Tool Control.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All knives not in a secure cutting room are physically secured to the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstation and staff directly supervise detainees using knives at these     |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstations. Staff  monitor the condition of knives and dining utensils.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is adequate health protection for all inmates and staff in the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility, and for all persons working in food service.  Inmates and other    |        |            |       |                                              |
|persons working in food service are monitored each day for health and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|cleanliness by the food service supervisor or designee. Detainee clothing and|        |            |       |                                              |
|grooming comply with the "Food Service" standard.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are served at three meals daily at least     two of which are hot  |        |            |       |                                              |
|meals.  No more than 14 hours elapse between the last meal served and the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|first     meal of the following day.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|A registered dietitian conducts a complete nutritional analysis, at least    |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually, of every master-cycle menu planned.  The dietitian certifies menus |        |            |       |                                              |
|before implementation.  If necessary, assigned staff modifies the menu in    |        |            |       |                                              |
|light of the nutritional analysis, to ensure nutritional adequacy.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The cycle is reevaluated to maintain the integrity of   the nutritional      |        |            |       |                                              |
|analysis.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The food service program addresses medical diets.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Satellite-feeding programs follow guidelines for         proper sanitation.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hot and cold foods are maintained at the prescribed, "safe" temperature(s) as|        |            |       |                                              |
|served.  See Detention       Standard on Food Service for guidance.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All meals provided in nutritionally adequate portions.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food is not used to punish or reward detainees         based upon behavior.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility implements written procedures for the administrative, medical,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and/or dietary personnel conducting the weekly inspections of all food       |        |            |       |                                              |
|service areas, including dining, storage, equipment, and food-preparation    |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard procedure includes checking and documenting temperatures of all     |        |            |       |                                              |
|dishwashing machines after each meal, in accordance with the Detention       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Food Service.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff documents the results of every refrigerator/ freezer temperature check,|        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with the Detention Standard on Food Service.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The cleaning schedule for each food service area is conspicuously posted.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include inspecting all incoming food        shipments for damage, |        |            |       |                                              |
|contamination, and pest        infestation.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Storage areas are locked when not in use.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An independent, external source shall conduct annual inspections to ensure   |        |            |       |                                              |
|that the   food service facilities and equipment meet governmental health and|        |            |       |                                              |
|safety codes.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corrective action is taken on deficiencies, if any.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only those toxic and caustic materials required for    sanitary maintenance  |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the facility, equipment, and  utensils shall be used in the food service  |        |            |       |                                              |
|department. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs)   will be maintained on all  |        |            |       |                                              |
|flammable, toxic, and          caustic substances used.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility is responsible for pest control in the food service department, |        |            |       |                                              |
|including contracting the services of an outside exterminator.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a facility has a no-pork menu, in order to alleviate  any confusion for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|those who observe no-pork diets   for religious reasons, this information    |        |            |       |                                              |
|should be        included in the facility’s handbook and the facility        |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation.  If the facility has a chaplain, s/he should also be made aware |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the policy.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

Reviewer’s Signature / Date







|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well-being by monitoring, counseling, and providing appropriate treatment to any detainee who is on |
|a hunger strike.                                                                                                                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Facility immediately report via the chain of      command a hunger strike to |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO and DIHS.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has established procedures to ensure     staff respond          |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately to a hunger strike.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical staff has written procedures for treating hunger strikers. Any   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee refusing medical          treatment will be monitored by medical    |        |            |       |                                              |
|staff to          evaluate whether the hunger strike poses a risk to    the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s life or permanent health.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees have access to a continuum of prompt, effective health care and emergency care services, so that their      |
|health care needs are met in a timely and efficient manner at no cost to detainees.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility operates a health care facility in               compliance with|        |            |       |                                              |
|state and local laws and guidelines.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s in-processing procedures for arriving    detainees include    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical and mental health             screening.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The essential positions needed to perform the health services mission and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|provide the required scope of services are described in a staffing plan that |        |            |       |                                              |
|is reviewed at least annually by the health  authority.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Newly admitted detainees will be informed, orally and in writing (in a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|language they can understand), about how to access health services.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees will have access to and receive                 emergency medical, |        |            |       |                                              |
|dental, and mental health          services.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediately upon their arrival, all newly admitted      detainees receive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|initial medical and mental health   screening by a health care provider or a |        |            |       |                                              |
|detention     officer specially trained to perform this function.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|When screening is performed by a detention officer, the facility maintains   |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation of the officer’s special training, and the officer has         |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for reference the DIHS medical training syllabus.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|If language difficulties prevent the health care provider/officer from       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sufficiently communicating with the detainee for purposes of completing the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical screening, the officer obtains translation assistance.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|8.  A signed and dated consent form is obtained from a detainee before       |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical treatment is  administered.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|9.  Detainee's medical records or a copy thereof, are      available.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|10.  Medical screening includes a Tuberculosis (TB)    test.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every arriving detainee receives a TB test.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|During the admission process.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee’s TB-screening does not occur more than one business day after his  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or her arrival at the facility.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees not screened are housed separate from the general population.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|11.  Detainees in the Special Management Unit have       access to the same  |        |            |       |                                              |
|level of health care as   detainees in the general population.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|12.  Staff provides detainees with health services (sick    call) request    |        |            |       |                                              |
|slips daily, upon request.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Request slips are available in languages other than English, including every |        |            |       |                                              |
|language spoken by a sizeable number of the facility’s detainee population.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Service request slips are delivered in a timely fashion to the health care   |        |            |       |                                              |
|provider.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|13.  The facility has a written plan for the delivery of 24-hour emergency   |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care when no  medical personnel are on duty at the facility, or when  |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediate outside medical attention is required.  A plan shall be prepared in|        |            |       |                                              |
|consultation with the facility's routine medical provider, taking into       |        |            |       |                                              |
|account the following:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An on-call provider;                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|A list, available to all staff, of telephone numbers for local ambulances and|        |            |       |                                              |
|hospital services; and                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|On-site emergency first aid and crisis intervention;                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training health care personnel to respond to health-related situations within|        |            |       |                                              |
|4 minutes;                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency evacuation of the detainees from the facility;                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of an emergency medical vehicle;                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of one or more designated hospital emergency rooms or other appropriate  |        |            |       |                                              |
|health facilities;                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency on-call physician, dentist, and mental health professional services|        |            |       |                                              |
|that are available 24 hours per day; and                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security procedures that ensure the immediate transfer of detainees, when    |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|14.  Detention and health care personnel will be trained, at least annually, |        |            |       |                                              |
|to respond to health-related situations within four minutes and to properly  |        |            |       |                                              |
|use first aid kits, available in designated areas.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|15.  Where staff is used to distribute medication, a health care provider    |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly trains these officers.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff responsible for administering or having access to pharmaceuticals  |        |            |       |                                              |
|will be trained on medication management before beginning duty.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|17.  Pharmaceuticals and nonprescription medicines will be stored,           |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventoried, dispensed, and administered in accordance with sound standards  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and facility        needs for safety and security.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|18. Distribution of medication is in accordance with specific instructions   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and procedures established by the health care provider.  Written records of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|all medication given to detainees are maintained. Medicine administration    |        |            |       |                                              |
|error reports shall be kept for all administration errors.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|19. Each facility has written policy and  procedures for the management of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|pharmaceuticals that include:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|A formulary of all prescription and nonprescription medicines stocked or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|routinely procured from outside sources.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A method for obtaining medicines not on the formulary.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prescription practices, including requirements that medications are          |        |            |       |                                              |
|prescribed only when clinically indicated and that prescriptions are reviewed|        |            |       |                                              |
|before being renewed.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procurement, receipt, distribution, storage, dispensing, administration, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|disposal of medications.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Secure storage and perpetual inventory of all controlled substances (DEA     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Schedule II-V), syringes, and needles.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|20. Each facility has a written plan (or  plans) that address the management |        |            |       |                                              |
|of infectious     and communicable diseases, including prevention,           |        |            |       |                                              |
|education, identification, surveillance, immunization  (when applicable),    |        |            |       |                                              |
|treatment, follow-up, isolation       (when indicated), and reporting to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|local, state, and    federal agencies. Plans include:                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Coordination with public health authorities;                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ongoing education for staff and detainees;                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Control, treatment, and prevention strategies;                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Protection of individual confidentiality;                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Media relations;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management of tuberculosis, hepatitis A, B, and C, HIV infection, avian      |        |            |       |                                              |
|influenza, and                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting communicable diseases to local and/or state health departments in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accordance with local and state regulations.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees diagnosed with a communicable disease are isolated according to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|local medical operating procedures. Designated medical staff shall report to |        |            |       |                                              |
|the ICE Epidemiology Unit all cases of nationally notifiable infectious      |        |            |       |                                              |
|diseases.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Female detainees have access to pregnancy testing and pregnancy management   |        |            |       |                                              |
|services that include routine high-risk prenatal care, addiction management, |        |            |       |                                              |
|comprehensive counseling and assistance, nutrition, and postpartum follow-up.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with chronic conditions (such as hypertension and diabetes) will   |        |            |       |                                              |
|receive periodic care and treatment that includes monitoring of medications, |        |            |       |                                              |
|laboratory testing, and chronic care clinics, and others will be scheduled   |        |            |       |                                              |
|for periodic routine medical examinations, as determined by the health       |        |            |       |                                              |
|authority. Detainees with chronic conditions such as hypertension, diabetes, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and other diseases shall receive periodic care and treatment that includes:  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monitoring of medication,                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Laboratory testing, and                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of chronic care treatment.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with mental health problems will be referred as needed for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detection, diagnosis, treatment, and stabilization to prevent psychiatric    |        |            |       |                                              |
|deterioration while confined.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints for medical or mental health purposes will be authorized only by a|        |            |       |                                              |
|qualified medical or mental health provider, in accordance with the          |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements specified in this Detention Standard.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any detainee referred for mental health treatment receives a comprehensive   |        |            |       |                                              |
|evaluation by a licensed mental health provider within 14 days of the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|referral.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints for medical or mental health purposes may be authorized only by a |        |            |       |                                              |
|qualified medical or mental health provider, after reaching the conclusion   |        |            |       |                                              |
|that less restrictive measures are not successful.  The facility has written |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures that specify:                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The conditions under which restraints may be applied;                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The types of restraints to be used;                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|How a detainee in restraints is to be monitored;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The length of time restraints are to be applied;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirements for documentation, including efforts to use less restrictive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|alternatives; and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|After-incident review.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical authority or mental health provider completes a Post-Restraints  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Observation Report form DIHS-867 or similar form.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Involuntary administration of psychotropic medications to detainees complies |        |            |       |                                              |
|with applicable laws and regulations and the authorizing physician or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|psychiatrist will:                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specify the duration of therapy;                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Document that less restrictive intervention options have been exercised      |        |            |       |                                              |
|without success;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detail how the medication is to be administered;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monitor the detainee for adverse reactions and side effects; and             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prepare treatment plans for less restrictive alternatives as soon as         |        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical authority must reassess on a daily basis the need for continued  |        |            |       |                                              |
|seclusion for the health and safety of the detainee.  Assessments and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|associated decisions will be recorded.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are required to sign a refusal to consent form when treatment is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|refused.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Biohazardous waste will be managed and medical and dental equipment          |        |            |       |                                              |
|decontaminated in accordance with sound medical standards and compliance with|        |            |       |                                              |
|applicable local, state, and federal regulations.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees who require 24-hour medical care will be appropriately placed in a |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility that meets their medical needs.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in medical housing shall have access to all other services.such as |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephone, legal representatives, etc.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee is able to maintain acceptable personal hygiene practices through the provision of adequate bathing     |
|facilities and the issuance and exchange of clean clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|1.  The facility has a policy and procedure for the regular issuance and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|exchange of clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|2.  All new detainees shall be issued clean,                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|indoor/outdoor temperature-appropriate, presentable clothing during          |        |            |       |                                              |
|in-processing at no cost to the           detainee. At a minimum detainees   |        |            |       |                                              |
|receive:                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|One uniform shirt and one pair of uniform pants or one jumpsuit.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of socks.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of underwear (daily change).                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of facility-issued footwear.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|An additional exchange of undergarments shall be made available to detainees |        |            |       |                                              |
|if necessary for health or sanitation reasons.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|3.   New detainees are issued clean bedding, linens        and towels.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|4.  The facility provides and replenishes personal            hygiene items  |        |            |       |                                              |
|as needed.  Gender-specific items      are available. ICE detainees are not  |        |            |       |                                              |
|charged for       these items.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|5.   Toilet facilities are:                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate in number and can be used without staff assistance 24 hours per day |        |            |       |                                              |
|when detainees are confined in their cells or sleeping areas.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires that toilets be provided at a    |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum ratio of one for every 12 male detainees or one for every 8 female   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.  For males, urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|toilets.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bathing facilities are:                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable with temperatures between 100 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires one washbasin for every 12       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-09 requires a minimum ratio of one shower for|        |            |       |                                              |
|every 12 detainees.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with disabilities are provided adequate facilities, support, and   |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|assistance needed for self-care and personal hygiene.                        |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard protects the health and well-being of immigration detainees by training detention facility staff in effective methods for          |
|preventing suicide.  More specifically, facility staff will be trained to recognize and identify potential signs, behaviors, or situations which suggest a |
|detainee may be a suicide risk.  Facility staff will also be trained to proceed with the appropriate sensitivity, supervision, referral, reporting, medical|
|emergency intervention, and treatment when required to take action in order to prevent or minimize such a risk.                                            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written suicide prevention and        intervention program|        |            |       |                                              |
|approved and signed by the     health authority and facility administrator   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and            reviewed annually.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|2.  At a minimum, the Program shall include procedures to address:           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intake screening and referral requirements;                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The identification and supervision of suicide-prone       detainees;         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff training requirements;                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The management and reporting of suicidal incidents,   suicide watches, and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|deaths;                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Provision of safe housing for suicidal detainees;                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Debriefing of any suicides and suicide attempts by       administrative,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|security, and health services staff;                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guidelines for returning a previously suicidal detainee to a facility’s      |        |            |       |                                              |
|general population, upon written authorization of the clinical director.;    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting guidelines for facility personnel when            suspected        |        |            |       |                                              |
|suicidal behavior is observed; and                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures for the proper handling of detainees who exhibit suicidal |        |            |       |                                              |
|behavior.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|3.   Every new staff member receives suicide-prevention training.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide-prevention training occurs during the employee orientation program   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and annually         thereafter.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|4.  Training prepares staff to:                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective methods for identifying the warning signs and symptoms of impending|        |            |       |                                              |
|suicidal behavior,                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors of suicidal behavior,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed detainees,                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective communication between correctional and health care personnel,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Necessary referral procedures,                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level procedures,                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have already attempted suicide, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting and written documentation procedures.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|5.   A health-care provider or specially trained officer      screens all    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees for suicide potential as part of the admission process.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Screening does not occur later than one working day after the detainee’s     |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrival.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation exists that “specially trained officers” have completed        |        |            |       |                                              |
|training in accordance with a syllabus approved by the medical authority.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|6.  Written procedures cover when and how to refer at-  risk detainees to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical staff and procedures are    followed.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|7.   Written procedures cover returning a previously        suicidal detainee|        |            |       |                                              |
|to the general population, upon      written authorization of the clinical   |        |            |       |                                              |
|director or             appropriate health care professional.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|8.   The facility has a designated isolation room for         evaluation and |        |            |       |                                              |
|treatment.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|9.   The designated isolation room does not contain any structures or smaller|        |            |       |                                              |
|items that could be used in a   suicide attempt.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|10.  Medical staff has approved the room for this             purpose.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|11.  Staff observes and documents the status of a           suicide-watch    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee at least once every 15           minutes/constant observation.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|12. At facilities with twenty-four-hour medical staff,         observation of|        |            |       |                                              |
|imminently suicidal detainees by        medical or detention staff shall     |        |            |       |                                              |
|occur no less than     every 15 minutes. The Clinical Director (CD) may      |        |            |       |                                              |
|recommend constant direct supervision. If a detainee is clinically evaluated |        |            |       |                                              |
|and determined to be at risk for suicide, medical staff shall document the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|status of the detainee in the medical record at least every two hours, unless|        |            |       |                                              |
|otherwise directed by the CD.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|13.  In CDFs or IGSAs, and/or at facilities where there is not twenty-four   |        |            |       |                                              |
|hour medical staff, the facility            administrator shall report to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO any detainee  who has been identified as suicidal. ICE/DRO, shall    |        |            |       |                                              |
|consult with the CD or designated medical authority  for immediate evaluation|        |            |       |                                              |
|(with constant observation  until evaluation), or for transfer to a local    |        |            |       |                                              |
|psychiatric facility or emergency room by ambulance                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|14. Every completed suicide and serious suicide            attempt shall be  |        |            |       |                                              |
|subject to a mortality review             process.  A critical incident      |        |            |       |                                              |
|debriefing shall be           provided to all affected staff and detainees.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date







  |PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each facility’s continuum of health care services addresses terminal illness, fatal injury, and advance directives and|
|provides specific guidance in the event of a detainee’s death.                                                                                             |
|Check this box if the facility does not accept ICE detainees who are severely or terminally ill.  Indicate NA in the appropriate box for this portion of   |
|the worksheet.  ALWAYS complete all references to detainee death and related notifications.                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees, who are chronically or terminally ill, are    transferred to an   |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate facility.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility or appropriate ICE office promptly notifies the next-of-kin of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee’s: medical condition.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee's location.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The limitations placed on visiting.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each Field Office Director (FOD) must ensure that    all facilities within   |        |            |       |                                              |
|his or her jurisdiction receive          written instructions detailing the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|specific procedures to be followed in reporting a detainee’s death to the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Field Office, as well as internal Field Office                procedures for |        |            |       |                                              |
|notifying the FOD and others.            Procedures should consider attended |        |            |       |                                              |
|and                 unattended deaths that occur in custody in detention     |        |            |       |                                              |
|facilities, medical facilities and in transit.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures to notify ICE         officials, deceased|        |            |       |                                              |
|family members and consulates, when a detainee dies while in custody.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 5 ACTIVITIES

26    Correspondence and Other Mail
27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
28    Marriage Requests
29    Recreation
30    Religious Practices
31    Telephone Access
32    Visitation
33    Voluntary Work Program

|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to correspond with their families, the community, legal representatives, government offices,   |
|and consular officials consistent with the safe and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has written policy and procedures            concerning         |        |            |       |                                              |
|correspondence and other mail. The       rules for correspondence and other  |        |            |       |                                              |
|mail are posted  in each housing or common area or provided to        each   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee via a detainee handbook.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incoming mail distributed to detainees within 24        hours or one business|        |            |       |                                              |
|day after it is received and     inspected.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outgoing mail is delivered to the postal service within one business day of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|its entering the internal mail system (excluding weekends and holidays).     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintains a logbook-recording acceptance of   priority, priority       |        |            |       |                                              |
|overnight, and certified mail delivered to the facility for a detainee.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outgoing Special Correspondence shall not be         opened, inspected, or   |        |            |       |                                              |
|read;                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides writing paper, envelopes, and    pencils at no cost to |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE detainees.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU units have the same correspondence privileges as general population.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard permits detainees to maintain ties with their families and the community by providing detainees emergency staff-escorted trips into|
|the community to visit critically ill members of the immediate family or to attend their funerals.                                                         |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Non-Medical Emergency Escorted Trips are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the      |
|detainee case.                                                                                                                                             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director considers and approves, on a case-by-case basis,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|trips to an immediate family  member's:                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Funeral                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deathbed                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The IGSA facility notifies ICE of all detainee requests for non-medical      |        |            |       |                                              |
|escorts.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility procedures comply with the following ICE      Standards:            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transportation (Land Transportation)                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints applied strictly in accordance with the Use of Force Standard.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



  |PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each marriage request from an ICE/DRO detainee receives a case-by-case review and based on internal guidelines for    |
|approval of such requests.                                                                                                                                 |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director or Facility Administrator considers detainee       |        |            |       |                                              |
|marriage requests on a case-by-case basis.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook explains the marriage          request process.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date





|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee has access to recreational and exercise programs and activities, within the constraints of safety,      |
|security, and good order.                                                                                                                                  |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Facility provides:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An indoor recreation program.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|An outdoor recreation program.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to recreation activities for at    least one hour      |        |            |       |                                              |
|daily, 5 days a week.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All recreation areas under constant staff supervision.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 5 – 30. RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees of different religious beliefs are provided reasonable and equitable opportunities to participate in the    |
|practices of their respective faiths, constrained only by concerns about safety, security, the orderly operation of the facility, or extraordinary costs   |
|associated with a specific practice.                                                                                                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to engage in religious services.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility allows detainees to observe the major “holy days” of their      |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious faith.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee is allowed religious items in his/her immediate possession.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Volunteer’s credentials are checked and verified before allowing             |        |            |       |                                              |
|participation in detainee programs.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date






 |PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees may maintain ties with their families and others in the community by providing them reasonable and equitable|
|access to telephone services.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed access to telephones            during established     |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility waking hours including      access to TTY devices.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon admittance, detainees are made aware of        the facility's telephone |        |            |       |                                              |
|access policy.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Notification explaining the facilities telephone            policy is in the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Handbook.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Access rules, including updated telephone and         consulate numbers are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|posted in housing units.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility makes a reasonable effort to provide       key information to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in languages                 spoken by any significant portion of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility's        population.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are provided at a minimum ratio of         one telephone per 25   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in the facility            population.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are inspected daily by facility staff          to ensure that they|        |            |       |                                              |
|are in good working order.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are afforded a reasonable degree of        privacy for legal phone |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A procedure exists to assist a detainee who is           having trouble      |        |            |       |                                              |
|placing a confidential call.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides the detainees with the                ability to make  |        |            |       |                                              |
|non-collect (special access)               calls at no charge to the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees. .                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|All telephone restrictions are documented.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Phone call messages are given to detainees as soon as possible.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to return emergency               phone calls as soon  |        |            |       |                                              |
|as possible.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are                   allowed phone    |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls relating to the detainee's            immigration case or other legal  |        |            |       |                                              |
|matters,                    including consultation calls.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are                   allowed phone    |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls to consular/embassy                  officials.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in administrative segregation and              protective custody  |        |            |       |                                              |
|afforded the same                         telephoning privileges as those in |        |            |       |                                              |
|general                  population.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|When detainee phone calls are monitored,                notification is      |        |            |       |                                              |
|posted by detainee telephones             that phone calls made by the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees may be        monitored. Special Access calls are not              |        |            |       |                                              |
|monitored.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to maintain ties through visitation with their families, the community, legal representatives, |
|and consular officials, within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There is a written visitation procedure, schedule, and hours for general     |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visitation schedule and rules are available to the public.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A written copy of the rules regulating visitation and the hours of visitation|        |            |       |                                              |
|is available to visitors in English, Spanish, and other major languages      |        |            |       |                                              |
|spoken in the facility.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A general visitation log is maintained.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitors are searched and identified according to standard requirements.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Legal visitation is available seven (7) days a week, including holidays.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard provides detainees opportunities to work and earn money while confined, subject to the number of work opportunities available and  |
|within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.  While not legally required to do so, ICE/DRO affords working detainees basic Occupational     |
|Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protections.                                                                                                       |
|Check here if ICE detainees are not authorized to work at the IGSA facility.  Mark NA and move to next section.                                            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern selection of detainees for the Voluntary Work      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The same procedures apply for replacement workers as for “new” workers.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility complies with work-hour requirements for detainees, not         |        |            |       |                                              |
|exceeding:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Eight hours a day.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Forty hours a week.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee volunteers ordinarily work according to a fixed schedule.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff screens and formally certifies detainee food service           |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before the assignment begins                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|As a matter of written procedure                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees receive safety equipment/ training sufficient for the assignment   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

 Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
      




 Reviewer’s Signature / Date

Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 6 JUSTICE


34    Detainee Handbook
35    Grievance System
36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard requires that, upon admission, every detainee be provided comprehensive written orientation materials that describe such matters as|
|the facility’s rules and sanctions, disciplinary system, mail and visiting procedures, grievance system, services, programs, and medical care, in the      |
|languages spoken by significant numbers of detainees in that facility, and that detainees acknowledge receipt of those materials.                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a detainee handbook. Each detainee receives a copy of the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|local handbook and the ICE National Handbook.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook is written in English and translated into Spanish, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other languages spoken by significant numbers of detainees in that facility. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook states in clear language basic detainee                |        |            |       |                                              |
|responsibilities.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook clearly outlines the methods for classification of detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes; Official count times and count procedures, meal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|times, feeding procedures, procedures for medical or religious diets, smoking|        |            |       |                                              |
|policy, Clothing exchange schedules and if authorized, clothes washing and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|drying procedures and expected personal hygiene practices.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes; the telephone policy, debit card procedures, direct  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and frees calls; locations of telephones; policy when telephone demand is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|high; and policy and procedures for emergency phone calls.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook addresses religious programming.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook states times and procedures for commissary or vending machine   |        |            |       |                                              |
|usage. (where available)                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the library location and hours of operation and law   |        |            |       |                                              |
|library procedures and schedules.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes: attorney and regular visitation hours, policies, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures, location of the list of pro bono legal organizations; group legal|        |            |       |                                              |
|rights presentations schedule and sign up procedures.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook/supplement provides local ICE contact information.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility contraband policy.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility visiting hours and schedule and visiting |        |            |       |                                              |
|rules and regulations.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the correspondence policy and procedures.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee disciplinary policy and procedures,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|including:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited acts and severity scale sanctions.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Time limits in the Disciplinary Process.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Summary of Disciplinary Process.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the medical sick call procedures for general          |        |            |       |                                              |
|population and segregation.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility recreation policy including:             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outdoor recreation hours.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Indoor recreation hours.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|In dorm leisure activities.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rules for television viewing.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee dress code.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook specifies the rights and responsibilities of all detainees.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are required to sign for the handbook to ensure accountability.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation materials are provided to illiterate detainees either orally or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|via audio/video tapes in a language they can understand.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights and ensures they are treated fairly by providing a procedure by which they may file formal grievances   |
|and receive timely responses.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the facility’s informal and formal grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|system.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every member of the staff knows how to identify emergency grievances,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|including the procedures for expediting them.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are documented or substantiated cases of staff harassing, disciplining,|        |            |       |                                              |
|penalizing, or otherwise retaliating against a detainee who lodges a         |        |            |       |                                              |
|complaint.  If yes, explain.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include maintaining a Detainee Grievance Log.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If not, an alternative acceptable record keeping system is maintained.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|"Nuisance complains" are identified in the records.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|For quality control purposes, staff documents nuisance complaints received   |        |            |       |                                              |
|but not filed.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff comply with the requirement to report allegations of officer misconduct|        |            |       |                                              |
|to a supervisor or higher-level official in his or her chain of command,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|and/or to ICE/DRO Office of Professional Responsibility and/or the DHS       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Inspector General.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to courts, counsel, and legal materials.                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility provides access to a designated law       library for detainee  |        |            |       |                                              |
|use.                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The law library contains all materials listed in the      “Access to Legal   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Materials” Standard,                        Attachment A.  The listing of    |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials is posted       in the law library.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the Lexis/Nexis CD-ROM service alternative is      used for the           |        |            |       |                                              |
|publications in Attachment A, the          facility provides detainees       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sufficient:                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable computers and printers, in sufficient           numbers in order to |        |            |       |                                              |
|provide access                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Photocopiers, and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supplies for both.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff ensures that illiterate or non-English-                speaking        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees without legal representation       receive more than access to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|English-language         law books after indicating their need for help.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to information presented by authorized persons and organizations for the       |
|purpose of informing them of U.S. immigration law and procedures.                                                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
| Check here if No Group Presentations were conducted within the past 12 months.  Mark Standard as Acceptable overall and continue on with next portion of  |
|worksheet.                                                                                                                                                 |
|The Field Office is responsive to requests by attorneys and accredited       |        |            |       |                                              |
|representatives for group presentations.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon receipt of concurrence by the Field Office Director, the facility or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized ICE/DRO Field Office ensures proper notification to attorneys or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accredited representatives in a timely manner.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Part 7 ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT

38    Detention Files
39    News Media Interviews and Tours
40    Staff Training
41    Transfer of Detainees


|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard contributes to efficient and responsible facility management by maintaining for each detainee booked into a facility for |
|more than 24 hours a file of all significant information about that person.                                                                      |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                              |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                     |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                     |
|A detention file is created for every new arrival        whose stay will     |        |            |       |                                     |
|exceed 24 hours.                                                             |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detainee detention file contains either                 originals or     |        |            |       |                                     |
|copies of documentation and forms        generated during the admissions     |        |            |       |                                     |
|process.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detainee’s detention file also contains                 documents        |        |            |       |                                     |
|generated during the detainee’s              custody.                        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Special requests                                                             |        |            |       |                                     |
|Any G-589s and/or I-77s or IGSA equivalent, closed-out during the detainee’s |        |            |       |                                     |
|stay                                                                         |        |            |       |                                     |
|Disciplinary forms/Segregation forms                                         |        |            |       |                                     |
|Grievances, complaints, and the disposition(s) of same                       |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detention file are located and maintained in       a secured area.       |        |            |       |                                     |
|The detention file remains active during the               detainee’s stay.  |        |            |       |                                     |
|When the detainee is released        from the facility, staff adds copies of |        |            |       |                                     |
|completed        release documents, the original closed-out                  |        |            |       |                                     |
|receipts for property and valuables, the original         I-385 or equivalent|        |            |       |                                     |
|and other documentation.                                                     |        |            |       |                                     |
|The officer closing the detention file makes a            notation that the  |        |            |       |                                     |
|file is complete and ready to be       archived.                             |        |            |       |                                     |
|Staff makes copies and sends documents from        the file when             |        |            |       |                                     |
|appropriately requested by                    supervisory personnel at the   |        |            |       |                                     |
|receiving facility or        office.                                         |        |            |       |                                     |
|Appropriate staff has access to the detention file      and other            |        |            |       |                                     |
|departmental requests are                         accommodated by making a   |        |            |       |                                     |
|request for the file.       Each file is properly logged out and in by a     |        |            |       |                                     |
|representative of the responsible department.                                |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                     |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A       Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that the public and the media are informed of events within the facility’s areas of responsibility through interviews and  |
|tours.                                                                                                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Exceeds |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                              |
|                                                                             |Standard|Standard|Meet        |       |                                     |
|                                                                             |s       |s       |Standards   |       |                                     |
|In the past year, have there been any interviews       by reporters, other   |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|news media representatives,       academics and others not covered by the    |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Detention Standard on Visitation?                                            |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|If so, were they permitted only by special                   arrangement and |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|with approval of the respective       ICE/DRO Field Office Director?         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive initial and  |
|ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts appropriate orientation, initial training, and annual  |        |            |       |                                              |
|training for all staff, contractors, and volunteers.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The amount and content of training is consistent with the duties and function|        |            |       |                                              |
|of each individual and the degree of direct supervision that individual      |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel authorized to use firearms receive training that covers their use, |        |            |       |                                              |
|safety, and care and constraints on their use -- before being assigned to a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|post involving their possible use.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|All personnel authorized to use firearms demonstrate competency in their use |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least annually.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel authorized to use chemical agents receive training in the use of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|chemical agents and in the treatment of individuals exposed to a chemical    |        |            |       |                                              |
|agent before being assigned to a post involving their possible use.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least annually to|        |            |       |                                              |
|respond to health-related emergencies within four minutes.  The training is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided by a responsible medical authority in cooperation with the facility |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator and includes:                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing of signs of potential health emergencies and the required        |        |            |       |                                              |
|responses.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administering first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtaining emergency medical assistance through the facility plan and its     |        |            |       |                                              |
|required procedures.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing signs and symptoms of mental illness, suicide risk, retardation, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and chemical dependency.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s established plan and procedures for providing emergency       |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical care including, when required, the safe and secure transfer of       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees for appropriate hospital or other medical services, including by   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ambulance when indicated.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|7.    All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least      |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually on the facility’s Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intervention Program.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|8.    All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least      |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|annually on the facility’s Suicide Prevention and Intervention Program, to   |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|include:                                                                     |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Identifying the warning signs and symptoms of        impending suicidal      |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|behavior,                                                                    |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors      of suicidal behavior,  |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed                     detainees,          |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Communication between correctional and health     care personnel,            |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Referral procedures,                                                         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level           procedures, and        |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have          attempted suicide.       |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|All staff are trained during orientation and annually to recognize the signs |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|of a hunger strike and on the procedures for referral for medical assessment.|        |        |            |       |                                     |
|All staff are trained in proper procedures for the      care and handling of |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|keys.                                                                        |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard ensures that transfers of detainees from one facility to another are professionally and responsibly managed in regard to            |
|notifications, detainee records, safety and security, and protection of detainee funds and personal property.                                               |
|Components                                                                   |Exceeds |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                               |
|                                                                             |Standard|Standard|Meet        |       |                                      |
|                                                                             |s       |s       |Standards   |       |                                      |
|When a detainee is represented by legal counsel       or a legal             |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|representative, and a G-28 has been         filed, the representative of     |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|record is notified by          the detainee’s Deportation Officer within 24  |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|hours of transfer.                                                           |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The notification is recorded in the detainee’s file                          |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|When the A-File is not available, notification is noted within ENFORCE.      |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Notification includes the reason for the transfer        and the location of |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|the new facility,                                                            |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The deportation officer is allowed discretion              regarding the     |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|timing of the notification when              extenuating circumstances are   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|involved.                                                                    |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The attorney and detainee are notified that it is          their             |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|responsibility to notify family members               regarding a transfer.  |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Facility policy mandates that:                                               |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Times and transfer plans are never discussed          with the detainee prior|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|to transfer.                                                                 |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The detainee is not notified of the transfer until          immediately prior|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|to departing the facility.                                                   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The detainee is not permitted to make any                 phone calls or have|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|contact with any detainee in       the general population.                   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|The detainee is provided with a completed                Detainee Transfer   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Notification Form.                                                           |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Form G-391 or equivalent authorizing the                  removal of a       |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|detainee from a facility is used.                                            |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Detainee’s funds and valuables and property are      returned and transferred|        |        |            |       |                                      |
|with the detainee to his       or her new location.                          |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|Meals are provided when transfers occur during       normally schedule meal  |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|times.                                                                       |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|An A-File or work folder accompanies the                 detainee when       |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|transferred to a different Field           Office or sub-office.             |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|A-Files are forwarded to the receiving office via        overnight mail no   |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|later than one business day           following the transfer.                |        |        |            |       |                                      |
|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard        N/A      Repeat Finding


Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)



Reviewer’s Signature / Date


                                                  Condition of Confinement Inspection Worksheet
                                      (This document must be attached to each G-324A Detention Review Form)
                                     This Form to is be used for Inspections of Facilities Used over 72 Hours
                                                                      [pic]

                                                                      [pic]
                                                  Performance-Based National Detention Standards
                                                 Inspection Worksheet for Over 72 Hour Facilities

      Intergovernmental Service Agreement (IGSA)
      ICE Service Processing Center (SPC)
      ICE Contract Detention Facility (CDF)
|Name                                                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Address (Street and Name)                                                                                                                  |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|City, State and Zip Code                                                                                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|County                                                                                                                                     |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and Title of Chief Executive Officer (Warden/Superintendent/Facility Administrator)                                                   |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Name and title of Reviewer-In-Charge                                                                                                       |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Date[s] of Review                                                                                                                          |
|                                                                                                                                           |
|Type of Review                                                                                                                             |
|Headquarters  Operational Special Assessment Other                                                                                         |



Introduction and Overview to the G324A Over 72hour Facility Detention Inspection Worksheets

What is “Performance-Based”?

Unlike “policy and procedures” that focus solely on what is to be done, performance-based policy starts with a focus on the results or outcomes
the required procedures are expected to accomplish.  Each National Detention Standard has been revised to produce Expected Outcomes that are
clearly stated. Each standard reflects the overall mission and purpose of the agency and contributes to the goal that has been articulated.

Expected Practices found in the National Detention Standards (NDS) represent what is to be done to accomplish the Expected Outcomes that will
meet the Purpose and Scope of the Detention Standard.

Outcome Measures (key indicators) are what is looked at to know whether (or how well) what a facility is accomplishing contributes to the
outcomes expected.

The original 38 NDS have been revised into 41 performance-based standards. During the development four new standards were added to include: News
Media, Searches of Detainees, Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention and Staff Training.  The two standards on Special Management
Units were condensed into one standard.  The new performance-based standards have incorporated American Correctional Association (ACA) Adult
Local Detention Facility standards, which are the industry benchmark.

Worksheet Overview

There are two sets of Detention Review Worksheets that are used to assess compliance with the National Detention Standards (NDS). Both sets of
these worksheets are derived from the policy and procedures set forth in the NDS. The G324A is for use with the facilities that house detainees
for over 72 hours, while the G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees for under 72 hours.

The G324B is for use with facilities that house detainees under 72 hours and it does not contain as many requirements as the G324A on the
following NDS: Correspondence and Other Mail, Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies, Law Libraries and Legal Material, Legal Rights Group
Presentations, Marriage Requests, Recreation, and Voluntary Work Program. These standards were not included in the prior version of the G324B
due to the short term nature of the detention in facilities that are used for 72 hours or less. These sections are now included in the G324B but
only to the extent that facilities seek applicability and are not mandated by ICE. For example, voluntary work programs are not required, but if
detainees work, compliance with the NDS is required.

Mandatory components in several of the standards have been indicated in the worksheets. Mandatory items are those which must be met in order for
the facility to receive a Meets Standards rating for that standard. These mandatory components typically represent life safety issues.  A Does
Not Meet Standards on one of these components is very serious.  Failing to meet one of the mandatory components means that the overall facility
review rating will be Does Not Meet Standards.
The Outcome Measures Worksheet section is completely new for the performance-based NDS. The Outcome Measures  Worksheets  will  be  completed  by
facility staff prior to arrival of the review team. Ideally, this information will be maintained on a continuous basis by the  facility  as  part
of a key indicators database to provide a perpetual record for monitoring  facility  performance.  The  Reviewer  in  Charge  (RIC)  will  review
facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and trends.



Worksheet Completion

Reviewers are required to complete each item of each section of the G324A and G324B Detention Review Worksheets.  Worksheets  are  in  a  uniform
format with 5 columns  with NDS purpose and scope cited at the top of the worksheet.  Column 1 contains the NDS  standard  assessment  component.
Columns 2-4 are provided for the ratings assigned to each component that is assessed. While there is a column titled N/A or not  applicable,  the
N/A rating should be used rarely and only when applicable. The remarks section is provided for reviewers to include details on each  rating  that
may raise a question such as the “Does Not Meet Standard” or “N/A” ratings.

A Remarks section is also provided at the end of the outcome measures section for summary comments and analysis of  outcome  measures  data.  The
information included in the worksheet components remarks sections and in the final summary remarks section should be considered for inclusion  in
the reviewer report that summarizes the overall facility review process.



Outcome Measures Completion

The Outcome Measures Worksheets will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the  review  team.  Ideally,  this  information  will  be
maintained on a continuous basis by the facility as part of a key indicators database to provide  a  perpetual  record  for  monitoring  facility
performance.  Data should be verified as accurate by the facility before including it in the  database.  Outcome  measure  data  is  intended  to
assess facility issues related to the NDS, so care should be taken to focus on ICE related issues. For example when computing the  average  daily
population (ADP), assess and provide information on the ICE population.

The RIC will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to  describe  facility  performance  and  trends.  In  a  few
instances outcome measures are not provided for some the NDS because after careful consideration of the standard the assessment process has  been
determined to be more process oriented in nature.











                                                                Table of Contents


PART 1      SAFETY
      1     Emergency Plans
      2     Environmental Health and Safety
      3     Transportation (By Land)

PART 2      SECURITY
      4     Admission and Release
      5     Classification System
      6     Contraband
      7     Facility Security and Control
      8     Funds and Personal Property
      9     Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
      10    Key and Lock Control
      11    Population Counts
      12    Post Orders
      13    Searches of Detainees
      14    Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
      15    Special Management Units
      16    Staff-Detainee Communication
      17    Tool Control
      18    Use of Force and Restraints

PART 3      ORDER
      19    Disciplinary System

PART 4      CARE
      20    Food Service
      21    Hunger Strikes
      22    Medical Care
      23    Personal Hygiene
      24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
      25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

PART 5      ACTIVITIES
      26    Correspondence and Other Mail
      27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
      28    Marriage Requests
      29    Recreation
      30    Religious Practices
      31    Telephone Access
      32    Visitation
      33    Voluntary Work Program

PART 6      JUSTICE
      34    Detainee Handbook
      35    Grievance System
      36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
      37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

PART 7      ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
      38    Detention Files
      39    News Media Interviews and Tours
      40    Staff Training
      41    Transfer of Detainees
 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section I SAFETY

1      Emergency Plans
2      Environmental Health and Safety
3      Transportation (By Land)

|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively respond to  |
|any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|No Detainee or detainee groups exercise control or authority over other      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are protected from:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal abuse                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal injury                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disease                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Property damage                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Harassment from other detainees                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff is trained to identify signs of detainee unrest.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|What type of training and how often?                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff effectively disseminates information on facility climate, detainee     |        |            |       |                                              |
|attitudes, and moods to the Facility Administrator.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a designated person or persons responsible for emergency plans and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|their implementation.  Sufficient time is allotted to the person or group for|        |            |       |                                              |
|development and implementation of the plans.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each emergency plan is assigned a number and is strictly accounted for.  A   |        |            |       |                                              |
|list identifying the location of each emergency plan is maintained by the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Chief of Security or equivalent.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive training in the emergency plans during their orientation   |        |            |       |                                              |
|training as well as during their annual training.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The General Section of the emergency plans discusses alternate routes to the |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility for staff to use in the event the primary route is impassable.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plans address the following issues:                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Confidentiality                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accountability (copies and storage locations)                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Annual review procedures and schedule                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Revisions                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contingency plans include a comprehensive general section with procedures    |        |            |       |                                              |
|applicable to most emergency situations, including procedures for handling   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees with special needs.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contingency Plans include a procedure for notification of neighbors residing |        |            |       |                                              |
|in close proximity to the facility.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has cooperative contingency plans with applicable:              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Local law enforcement agencies                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|State agencies                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Federal agencies                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts mock emergency exercises with agencies or departments  |        |            |       |                                              |
|with which they share mutual aid agreements and Memoranda of Understandings. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The exercises should test specific emergency plans to assess their           |        |            |       |                                              |
|effectiveness.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive copies of the Facilty Hostage policy and procedures.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff is trained to disregard instructions from hostages, regardless of rank.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Within 24 hours after release, hostages are screened for medical and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|psychological effects.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains a list of translator services in the event one is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|needed during a hostage crisis.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency plans include emergency medical treatment for staff and detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|during and after an incident.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Food Service Department maintains at least 3- days worth of emergency    |        |            |       |                                              |
|meals for staff and detainees.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written plans illustrate locations of shut-off valves and switches for       |        |            |       |                                              |
|utilities (water, gas, electric).                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written plans include a Staff Work Stoppage procedure.  This procedure is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for limited supervisory review.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Written procedures cover:                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Work/Food Strike                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental Hazard                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Transportation System Emergency                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE-wide Lockdown                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff Work Stoppage                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disturbances                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escapes                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bomb Threats                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adverse Weather                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Internal Searches                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Evacuation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Transportation System Plan                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostages (Internal)                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Civil Disturbances                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Emergency Plans specify a procedure for post-emergency debriefings and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|discussions.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors from injury and illness by maintaining high facility standards of           |
|cleanliness and sanitation, safe work practices, and control of hazardous substances and equipment.                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has a system for storing, issuing, and maintaining  |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventories of hazardous materials.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant inventories are maintained for all flammable, toxic, and caustic    |        |            |       |                                              |
|substances used/stored in each area of the facility.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The manufacturer’s Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) file is up-to-date for  |        |            |       |                                              |
|every hazardous substance used.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The files list all storage areas, and include a plant diagram and legend.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDSs and other information in the files are available to personnel      |        |            |       |                                              |
|managing the facility’s safety program.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All personnel using flammable, toxic, and/or caustic substances follow the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|prescribed procedures:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Wear personal protective equipment.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report hazards and spills to the designated official.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The MSDS are readily accessible to staff and detainees in the work areas.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hazardous materials are always issued under proper supervision.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Quantities are limited.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are trained.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff always supervises detainees using these substances.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All "flammable” and “combustible" materials (liquid and aerosol) are stored  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and used according to label recommendations.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Lighting fixtures and electrical equipment are installed in storage rooms and|        |            |       |                                              |
|other hazardous areas and meet the National Electrical Code requirements.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All toxic and caustic materials stored in their original containers in a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|secure area.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Excess flammables, combustibles, and toxic liquids are disposed of properly  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with MSDS.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff directly supervise and account for products with methyl alcohol.  Staff|        |            |       |                                              |
|receive a list of products containing diluted methyl alcohol, for example,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|shoe dye.  All such products are clearly labeled as such.  "Accountability"  |        |            |       |                                              |
|includes issuing such products to detainees in the smallest workable         |        |            |       |                                              |
|quantities.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every employee and detainee using flammable, toxic, or caustic materials     |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives advanced training, in accordance with OSHA standards, in their use, |        |            |       |                                              |
|storage, and disposal.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility complies with the most current edition of applicable|        |            |       |                                              |
|codes, standards, and regulations of the National Fire Protection Association|        |            |       |                                              |
|(NFPA) and the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA).         |        |            |       |                                              |
|A technically qualified staff member conducts fire and safety inspections.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Safety Office (or officer) maintains files of inspection reports,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|including corrective actions taken.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has an approved fire prevention, control, and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|evacuation plan.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan requires:                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monthly fire inspections.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire protection equipment strategically located throughout the facility.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Public posting of emergency plan with accessible building/room floor plans.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Exit signs and directional arrows.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|An area-specific exit diagram conspicuously posted in the diagrammed area.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fire drills are conducted and documented quarterly in all facility locations |        |            |       |                                              |
|including the administrative area.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|A sanitation program covers barbering operations.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The barbershop has the facilities and equipment necessary to meet sanitation |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The sanitation standards are conspicuously posted in the barbershop.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures regulate the handling and disposal of used needles and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|other sharp objects.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All items representing potential safety or security risks are inventoried and|        |            |       |                                              |
|a designated individual checks this inventory weekly.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard cleaning practices include:                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using specified equipment; cleansers; disinfectants and detergents.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|An established schedule of cleaning and follow-up inspections.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Spill kits are readily available.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A licensed medical waste contractor disposes of infectious/bio-hazardous     |        |            |       |                                              |
|waste.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are trained to prevent contact with blood and other body fluids and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|written procedures are followed.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do the methods for handling/disposing of refuse meet all regulatory          |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Licensed/Certified/Trained pest-control professional inspects for rodents, |        |            |       |                                              |
|insects, and vermin.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least monthly.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The pest-control program includes preventive spraying for indigenous insects.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Drinking water and wastewater is routinely tested according to a fixed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|schedule.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency power generators are tested at least every two weeks.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Other emergency systems and equipment receive testing at least quarterly.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Testing is followed-up with timely corrective actions (repairs and           |        |            |       |                                              |
|replacements).                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility appears clean and well maintained.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hazardous material storage rooms meet the security and structural            |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements of the standard.  Storage cabinets meet the physical            |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements specified in the standard.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Health Services Administrator has implemented a program supporting a high|        |            |       |                                              |
|level of environmental sanitation.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Health Services Administrator conducts medical-facility inspections      |        |            |       |                                              |
|daily.  Each inspection includes noting the condition of floors, walls,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|windows, horizontal surfaces, and equipment.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The assigned staff member shall:Conduct special investigations and           |        |            |       |                                              |
|comprehensive surveys of environmental health conditions, and provide        |        |            |       |                                              |
|advisory, consultative, inspection, and training services regarding          |        |            |       |                                              |
|environmental health conditions.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The assigned staff member is responsible for developing and implementing     |        |            |       |                                              |
|policies, procedures, and guidelines for the environmental health program.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|These guidelines are intended to evaluate and eliminate or control as        |        |            |       |                                              |
|necessary, sources of injuries and modes of transmission of agents or vectors|        |            |       |                                              |
|of communicable diseases.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental health and safety conditions shall be maintained at a level    |        |            |       |                                              |
|that meets recognized standards of safety and hygiene, including those from  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the:                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|American Correctional Association,                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Occupational Safety and Health Administration,                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Environmental Protection Agency,                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food and Drug Administration,                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Fire Protection Association's Life Safety Code, and                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Center for Disease Control and Prevention.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date




|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard prevents harm to the general public, detainees, and staff by ensuring that vehicles are properly equipped, maintained, and operated|
|and that detainees are transported in a secure, safe and humane manner, under the supervision of trained and experienced staff.                            |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Transportation are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the detainee case.             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers comply with applicable local, state, and federal motor |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle laws and regulations.  Records support this finding of compliance.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every transporting officer required to drive a commercial size vehicle has a |        |            |       |                                              |
|valid Commercial Driver's License (CDL) issued by the state of employment.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervisors maintain records for each vehicle operated.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating annual inspection of vehicles and annual inspection |        |            |       |                                              |
|in accordance with state statutes, is available for review.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation indicating safety repairs are completed immediately and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicles are not used until they have been repaired and inspected is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|available for review.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers use a checklist during every vehicle inspection.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers report deficiencies affecting operability.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deficiencies are corrected before the vehicle goes back into service.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transporting officers:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Limit driving time to 10 hours in any 15 hour period when transporting       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive only after eight consecutive off-duty hours.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not receive transportation assignments after having been on duty, in any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity, for 15 hours.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drive a 50-hour maximum in a given work week; a 70-hour maximum during eight |        |            |       |                                              |
|consecutive days.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|During emergency conditions (including bad weather), officers may drive as   |        |            |       |                                              |
|long as necessary to reach a safe area(exceeding the 10-hour limit.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two officers with valid Commercial Drivers Licenses, (CDL’s) required in any |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle transporting detainees.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|When buses travel in tandem with detainees, there two qualified officers per |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|An unaccompanied driver transports an empty vehicle.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The transporting officer inspects the vehicle before the start of each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detail.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Positive identification of all detainees being transported is confirmed.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are searched immediately prior to boarding the vehicle by staff|        |            |       |                                              |
|controlling the bus or vehicle.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility ensures that the number of detainees transported does not exceed|        |            |       |                                              |
|the vehicle manufacturer’s occupancy level.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|All ICE uniformed officers wear their ICE issued body armor in accordance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the ICE Body Armor policy    when transporting detainees.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew conducts a visual count once all passengers are on board and|        |            |       |                                              |
|seated.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional visual counts are made whenever the vehicle makes a scheduled or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unscheduled stop.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policies and procedures are in place addressing the use of restraining       |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment on transportation vehicles.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers ensure that no one contacts the detainees.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|One officer remains in the vehicle at all times when detainees are present.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meals are provided during long distance transfers.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The meals meet the minimum dietary standards, as identified by dieticians    |        |            |       |                                              |
|utilized by ICE.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicle crew inspects all Food Service meals before accepting delivery   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(food wrapping, portions, quality, quantity, thermos-transport containers,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|etc.).                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before accepting the meals, the vehicle crew raises and resolves questions,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|concerns, or discrepancies with the Food Service representative.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Basins, latrines, and drinking-water, containers, dispensers are cleaned and |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanitized on a fixed schedule.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicles have:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two-way radios.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cellular telephones.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment boxes stocked in accordance with the Use of Force Standard.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Equipment appropriate and necessary for transporting detainees with physical |        |            |       |                                              |
|disabilities.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The vehicles are clean and sanitary at all times.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal property of a detainee transferring to another facility:            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inventoried.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Is inspected.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accompanies the detainee.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following contingencies are included in the written procedures for       |        |            |       |                                              |
|vehicle crews:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attack                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escape                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostage-taking                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee sickness                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee death                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle fire                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Riot                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Traffic accident                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Mechanical problems                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Natural disasters                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Severe weather                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Passenger list is not exclusively men or   women or minors                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                                       |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section II SECURITY
4      Admission and Release
5       Classification System
6       Contraband
7       Facility Security and Control
8       Funds and Personal Property
9       Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
10    Key and Lock Control
11     Population Counts
12     Post Orders
13     Searches of Detainees
14     Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
15     Special Management Units
16     Staff-Detainee Communication
17     Tool Control
18     Use of Force and Restraints


|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors by ensuring secure and orderly operations when detainees are |
|admitted to or released from a facility.                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Admission processing includes an orientation of the facility.  The           |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation includes; unacceptable activities and behavior, and corresponding|        |            |       |                                              |
|sanctions. How to contact ICE. The availability of pro-bono legal services,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and how to pursue such services.  Schedule of programs, services, daily      |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities, including visitation, telephone usage, mail service, religious   |        |            |       |                                              |
|programs, count procedures, access to and use of the law library and the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|general library; sick-call procedures, and the detainee handbook.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical screenings are performed by medical staff or persons who have        |        |            |       |                                              |
|received specialized training for the purpose of conducting an initial health|        |            |       |                                              |
|screening.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When available, accompanying documentation is used to identify and classify  |        |            |       |                                              |
|each new arrival.  In SPCs and CDFs, new detainees shall remain segregated   |        |            |       |                                              |
|from the general population during the orientation and classification period.|        |            |       |                                              |
|All new arrivals are searched in accordance with the “Detainee Search”       |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard.  An officer of the same sex as the detainee conducts the search and|        |            |       |                                              |
|the search is conducted in an area that affords as much privacy as possible. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are subjected to a strip search only when reasonable suspicion has |        |            |       |                                              |
|been established and not as routine policy.  Non-criminal detainees are never|        |            |       |                                              |
|subjected to a strip search but are patted down unless cause or reasonable   |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspicion has been established.  All strip searches are documented on G-1025,|        |            |       |                                              |
|or equivalent, with proper supervisory approval.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The “Contraband” standard governs all personal property searches.  IGSAs and |        |            |       |                                              |
|CDFs use or have a similar contraband standard.  Staff prepares a complete   |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventory of each detainee’s possessions.  The detainee receives a copy.  All|        |            |       |                                              |
|identity documents are inventoried and given to ICE staff for placement in   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the A-file.  All funds and valuables are safeguarded in accordance with ICE  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes Form I-387 or similar form for CDFs and IGSAs for every lost |        |            |       |                                              |
|or missing property claim.  Facilities forward all I-387 claims to ICE.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are issued appropriate and sufficient clothing and bedding for the |        |            |       |                                              |
|climatic conditions.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All releases are coordinated with ICE.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes paperwork/forms for release as required.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee receives a receipt for personal property secured by the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system to maintain accurate records and documentation for |        |            |       |                                              |
|admission, orientation, and release.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE staff enters all information pertaining to release, removal, or transfer |        |            |       |                                              |
|of all detainees into the Enforce Alien Detention Module (EADM) within 8     |        |            |       |                                              |
|hours of action.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All orientation material shall be provided in English, Spanish, and other    |        |            |       |                                              |
|language(s) as determined by the Field Office Director.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard protects the detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm, and contributes to orderly facility           |
|operations, by requiring a formal classification process for managing and separating detainees that is based on verifiable and documented data.            |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|SPC and CDF facilities use the required Objective Classification System.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|IGSAs use an objective classification system or similar system for           |        |            |       |                                              |
|classifying detainees.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility classification system includes:                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classifying detainees upon arrival.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Separating individuals who cannot be classified upon arrival from the general|        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The first-line supervisor or designated classification specialist reviews    |        |            |       |                                              |
|every classification decision.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The intake/processing officer reviews work-folders, A-files, etc., to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|identify and classify each new arrival.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff use only information that is factual, and reliable to determine        |        |            |       |                                              |
|classification assignments.  Opinions and unsubstantiated/ unconfirmed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|reports may be filed but are not used to score detainee classification.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing assignments are based on classification-level.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee's classification-level does not affect his or her recreation      |        |            |       |                                              |
|opportunities.  Detainees recreate with persons of similar classification    |        |            |       |                                              |
|designations.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee work assignments are based upon classification designations.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The classification process includes reassessment/ reclassification.  The     |        |            |       |                                              |
|First Reassessment is to be completed 60 days to 90 days after the initial   |        |            |       |                                              |
|assessment.  Subsequent reassessments are completed at 90 day to 120 day     |        |            |       |                                              |
|intervals.  Special Reassessments are completed within 24 hours.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The classification system includes standard procedures for processing new    |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrivals' appeals.  Only a designated supervisor or classification specialist|        |            |       |                                              |
|has the authority to reduce a classification-level on appeal.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classification appeals are resolved w/in 5 business days. detainees are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|notified of the outcome within 10 business days.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Classification designations may be appealed to a higher authority such as the|        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Administrator or equivalent.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Detainee Handbook or equivalent for IGSAs explains the classification    |        |            |       |                                              |
|levels, with the conditions and restrictions applicable to each.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs detainees are assigned color-coded uniforms and IDs to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|reflect classification levels.  In IGSA’s a similar system is utilized for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|each level of classification.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date





























|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by identifying, detecting, controlling, and properly    |
|disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                                   |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility follows a written procedure for handling contraband.  Staff     |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventories, holds, and reports it when necessary to the proper authority for|        |            |       |                                              |
|action/possible seizure.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contraband that is government property is retained as evidence for potential |        |            |       |                                              |
|disciplinary action or criminal prosecution.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff returns property not needed as evidence to the proper authority.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover the return of such property.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Altered property is destroyed following documentation and using established  |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before confiscating religious items, the Facility Administrator or designated|        |            |       |                                              |
|investigator contacts a religious authority.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures when destroying hard contraband that is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|illegal.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hard contraband that is illegal (under criminal statutes) is retained and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|used for official use, e.g. training purposes.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|If yes, under specific circumstances and using specified written procedures. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hard contraband is secured when not in use.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Soft Contraband is mailed to a third party or stored in accordance with the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention Standard on Funds and Personal Property.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees receive notification of contraband rules and procedures in the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Handbook and notified when property is identified and seized as     |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facilities with Canine Units only use them for contraband detection.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                     |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 7. FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, staff, contractors, volunteers, and detainees from harm by ensuring that facility security is maintained   |
|and that events that pose a risk of harm are prevented.                                                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator or assistant administrator and department heads   |        |            |       |                                              |
|visit detainee living quarters and activity areas weekly.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least one male and one female staff are on duty where both males and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|females are housed.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Comprehensive annual staffing analysis determines staffing needs and plans.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Essential posts and positions are filled with qualified personnel.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every Control Center officer receives specialized training.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy restricts staff access to the Control Center.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees do not have access to the Control Center.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communications are centralized in the Control Center.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility security and safety will be monitored and coordinated by a secure,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|well-equipped, and continuously staffed control center.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Control Center maintain employee Personal Data Cards (Form G-74 or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|contract equivalent).                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recall lists include the current home telephone   number of each employee.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Phone numbers are updated as needed.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff make watch calls every half-hour between 6 PM and 6 AM.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Information about routine procedures, emergency situations, and unusual      |        |            |       |                                              |
|incidents will be continually recorded in permanent post logs and shift      |        |            |       |                                              |
|reports.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The front-entrance officer checks the ID of everyone entering or exiting the |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All visits officially recorded in a visitor logbook or electronically        |        |            |       |                                              |
|recorded.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a secure, color-coded visitor pass system.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers monitor all vehicular traffic entering and leaving the facility.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains a log of all incoming and departing vehicles to       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sensitive areas of the facility.  Each entry contains:                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The driver's name                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Company represented                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle contents                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Delivery date and time                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Date and time out                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Vehicle license number                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Name of employee responsible for the vehicle during the facility visit       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers thoroughly search each vehicle entering and leaving the facility.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written policy and procedures to prevent the introduction |        |            |       |                                              |
|of contraband into the facility or any of its components.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The front entrance has a sally-port type entrance, with interlocking         |        |            |       |                                              |
|electronic doors or grilles.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s perimeter will ensure that detainees remain within and that   |        |            |       |                                              |
|public access is denied without proper authorization.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern searches of detainee housing units and personal    |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing area searches occur at irregular times.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security officer posts located in or immediately adjacent to detainee living |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas to permit officers to see or hear and respond promptly to emergency    |        |            |       |                                              |
|situations. Personal contact and interaction between staff and detainees is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|required and facilitated.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are post orders for every security officer post.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee movement from one area to another area is controlled by staff.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Living areas are constructed to facilitate continuous staff observation of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|cell or room fronts, dayrooms, and recreation space.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every search of the SMU and other housing units is documented.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The SMU entrance has a sallyport.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|All tools entering SMU will be inspected and inventoried by the SMU officer  |        |            |       |                                              |
|prior to entering the housing unit.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a comprehensive security inspection policy.  The policy     |        |            |       |                                              |
|specifies:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Posts to be inspected                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Required inspection forms                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Frequency of inspections                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guidelines for checking security features                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures for reporting weak spots, in-consistencies, and other areas       |        |            |       |                                              |
|needing improvement                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every officer is required to conduct a security check of his/her assigned    |        |            |       |                                              |
|area.  The results are documented.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation of security inspections is kept on file.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures ensure that recurring problems and a failure to take corrective   |        |            |       |                                              |
|action are reported to the appropriate manager.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools being taken into the secure area of the facility are inspected and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventoried before entering and prior to departure.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Storage and supply rooms; walls, light and plumbing fixtures, accesses, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|drains, etc. undergo frequent, irregular searches.  These searches are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Walls, fences, and exits, including exterior windows, are inspected for      |        |            |       |                                              |
|defects once each shift.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Daily procedures include:                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Perimeter alarm system tests.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Physical checks of the perimeter fence.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documenting the results.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitation areas receive frequent, irregular inspections.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An officer is assigned responsibility for ensuring the security inspection   |        |            |       |                                              |
|process covers all areas of the facility.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Maintenance Supervisor and Chief of Security or equivalent make monthly  |        |            |       |                                              |
|fence checks.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees’ personal property is safeguarded and controlled, specifically including funds, valuables, baggage and other|
|personnel property, and that contraband does not enter a detention facility.                                                                               |
|Standard NA:  (IGSA ONLY) Check this box if all ICE detainee Funds, Valuables and Property are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in       |
|control of the detainee case.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainee funds and valuables are properly separated and stored.  Detainee    |        |            |       |                                              |
|funds and valuables are accessible to designated supervisor(s) only.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees’ large valuables are secured in a location accessible to designated|        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor(s) or processing staff only.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches and itemizes the baggage and personal property of arriving    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees, including funds and valuables, using a personal property inventory|        |            |       |                                              |
|form that meets the ICE standard, in the presence of the detainee unless     |        |            |       |                                              |
|otherwise instructed by the facility administrator.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two officers are present during the processing of detainee funds and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|valuables during admissions processing to the facility.  Both officers verify|        |            |       |                                              |
|funds and valuables.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|For IGSAs and CDFs, Is the facility using a personal property inventory form |        |            |       |                                              |
|that meets the ICE standard?                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff gives the detainee the original inventory form, filing copies in the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s detention file and the personal property container.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff forwards an arriving detainee’s medicine to the medical staff.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff searches arriving detainees and their personal property for contraband.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Property discrepancies are immediately reported to the Chief of Security or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|equivalent.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures when returning property to detainees.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|CDF/IGSA facility procedures for handling detainee property claims are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|similar to the ICE standard.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility attempts to notify an out-processed detainee that he/she left   |        |            |       |                                              |
|property in the facility.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|By sending written notice to the detainee’s last known address;  via         |        |            |       |                                              |
|certified mail;                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The notice states that the detainee has 30 days in which to claim the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|property, after which it will be considered abandoned.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff obtains a forwarding address from each detainee.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|It is standard procedure for two officers to be present when                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|removing/documenting the removal of funds from a detainee’s possession.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff issues and maintains property receipts (G-589s) in numerical order.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff completes and distributes the G-589 in accordance with the ICE         |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The processing officer records each G-589 issuance in a G-589 logbook.  The  |        |            |       |                                              |
|record includes the initials and star numbers of receipting officers.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff tags large valuables with both a G-589 and an I-77.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The supervisor verifies the accuracy of every G-589.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The supervisor ensures that:                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee funds are, without exception, deposited into the cash box;          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every property envelope is sealed.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|All sealed property envelopes are placed in the safe.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Large, valuable property is kept in the secured locked area.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff tags every baggage/facility container with an I-77, completed in       |        |            |       |                                              |
|accordance with the ICE standard.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff secures every container used to store property with a tamper-proof     |        |            |       |                                              |
|numbered strap.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A logbook records detainee name, A- number/detainee-number, baggage-check/   |        |            |       |                                              |
|I-77 number, security tie-strap number, property description, date issued and|        |            |       |                                              |
|date returned.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs, th Detention Operations Supervisor, accompanied by a detention staff|        |            |       |                                              |
|member conducts a comprehensive weekly audit.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator has established quarterly audits of baggage and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|non-valuable property as facility policy, the audits occur each quarter and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|audits are verified and entered in the log.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility positively identifies every detainee being released or          |        |            |       |                                              |
|transferred.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff routinely informs supervisors of lost/damaged property claims.  Claims |        |            |       |                                              |
|are properly investigated and missing or damaged property claim reports are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|filed.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every lost/damaged property report completed in accordance with the ICE      |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard on an I-387 (or equivalent).  The Facility Administrator receives a |        |            |       |                                              |
|copy and staff places the original in the detainee’s A-file, retaining a copy|        |            |       |                                              |
|in the detainee’s detention file.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
































|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures the safety, security, and comfort of detainees temporarily held in Hold Rooms pending further processing.  The maximum     |
|aggregate time an individual may be confined in a facility’s Hold Room is 12 hours.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The hold room is situated in a location within the secure perimeter.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms are clean, in good repair, well ventilated, well lit, and all |        |            |       |                                              |
|activating switches located outside the room.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hold rooms contain sufficient seating for the number of detainees held.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|No bunks/cots/beds or other related make shift sleeping apparatuses are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|permitted inside hold rooms.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hold room walls and ceilings are escape and tamper resistant.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not held in hold rooms for more than 12 hours.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Male and females detainees are segregated from each other at all times.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided with basic personal hygiene items such as water, soap,|        |            |       |                                              |
|toilet paper, cups for water, feminine hygiene items, diapers and wipes.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the hold room is not equipped  with toilet facilities, an officer is      |        |            |       |                                              |
|posted within visual or audible range to allow detainees access to such on a |        |            |       |                                              |
|regular basis.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees are given a pat down search for weapons or contraband before   |        |            |       |                                              |
|being placed in the hold room.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the last detainee has been removed, the hold room is inspected for the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|following:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cleaning.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Evidence of tampering with doors, locks, windows, grills, plumbing or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|electrical fixtures is reported to the shift supervisor for corrective action|        |            |       |                                              |
|or repair.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) There is a written evacuation plan.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a designated officer to remove detainees from the hold rooms in case|        |            |       |                                              |
|of fire and/or building evacuation, or other emergency.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|An appropriate emergency service is called immediately upon a determination  |        |            |       |                                              |
|that a medical emergency exists.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Single occupant hold rooms contain a minimum of 37 square feet (7            |        |            |       |                                              |
|unencumbered square feet for the detainee, 5 square feet for a combination   |        |            |       |                                              |
|lavatory/toilet fixture, and 25 square feet for a wheelchair turn-around     |        |            |       |                                              |
|area).                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|If multiple-occupant hold rooms are used, there is an additional 7           |        |            |       |                                              |
|unencumbered square feet for each additional detainee.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs designed after 1998 the hold rooms are equipped with stainless steel |        |            |       |                                              |
|combination lavatory/toilet fixtures with modesty panels.  They are:         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Compliant with the American Disabilities Act.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Small hold rooms (1 to 14 detainees) have at least one combi-unit.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Large hold rooms (15 to 49 detainees) are provided with at least two         |        |            |       |                                              |
|combi-units.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs designed after 1998 the hold rooms have floor drain(s).              |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs designed after 1998, the door to the hold room swings outward and the|        |            |       |                                              |
|door complies with the specifications outlined in the standard.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Family units, persons of advanced age (over 70), females with children, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unaccompanied juvenile detainees (under the age of 18) are not placed in hold|        |            |       |                                              |
|rooms.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Minors (under 18) are confined apart from adults, except for immediate       |        |            |       |                                              |
|relatives or guardians.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detention facility maintains a detention log (manually or by computer)  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for each detainee placed in a hold cell.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The log includes the required information specified in the standard.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers provide a meal to any detainee detained in a hold room for more than|        |            |       |                                              |
|six hours.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Juveniles, babies and pregnant women have access to snacks, milk or juice.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meal are served to juveniles regardless of time in custody                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any detainee with disabilities, including temporary disabilities, will be    |        |            |       |                                              |
|housed in a manner that provides for his or her safety and security.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The maximum occupancy for the hold room will be posted.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before placing a detainee in a room, an officer shall observe each individual|        |            |       |                                              |
|to screen for obvious mental or physical problems.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff do not permit detainees to smoke in a hold room.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers closely supervise hold rooms through direct supervision, to ensure: |        |            |       |                                              |
|Continuous auditory monitoring, even when the hold room is not in the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|officer’s direct line of sight, and                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visual monitoring at irregular intervals at least every 15 minutes, each time|        |            |       |                                              |
|recording in the detention log, the time and officer's printed name and any  |        |            |       |                                              |
|unusual behavior or complaints under "Comments.”                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Constant surveillance of any detainee exhibiting signs of hostility,         |        |            |       |                                              |
|depression, or similar behaviors.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |
|This Detention Standard maintains facility safety and security by requiring that keys and locks be properly controlled and maintained.                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The security officer[s], or equivalent, has attended an approved locksmith   |        |            |       |                                              |
|training program.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, has responsibly for all administrative  |        |            |       |                                              |
|duties and responsibilities relating to keys, locks etc.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, provides training to all employees in   |        |            |       |                                              |
|key and lock control.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, maintains inventories of all keys, locks|        |            |       |                                              |
|and locking devices.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer follows a preventive maintenance program and maintains  |        |            |       |                                              |
|all preventive maintenance documentation.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility policies and procedures address the issue of compromised keys and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|locks.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The security officer, or equivalent, develops policy and procedures to ensure|        |            |       |                                              |
|safe combinations integrity.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only dead bolt or dead lock functions are used in detainee accessible areas. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non-authorized locks (as specified in the Detention Standard) are not used in|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee accessible areas.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility does not use grand master keying systems.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All worn or discarded keys and locks cut up and properly disposed of .       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Padlocks and/or chains are not used on cell doors.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The entrance/exit door locks to detainee living quarters, or areas with an   |        |            |       |                                              |
|occupant load of 50 or more people, conform to                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Occupational Safety and Environmental Health Manual, Chapter 3               |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Fire Protection Association Life Safety Code 101.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The operational keyboard sufficient to accommodate all the facility key rings|        |            |       |                                              |
|including keys in use is located in a secure area.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures in place to ensure that key rings are:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Identifiable                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Numbers of keys on the ring are cited?                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Keys cannot be removed from issued key rings                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency keys are available for all areas of the facility.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility uses a key accountability system.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Authorization is necessary to issue any restricted key.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Individual gun lockers are provided.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|They are located in an area that permits constant officer observation.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|In an area that does not allow detainee or public access.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a key accountability policy and procedures to ensure key    |        |            |       |                                              |
|accountability.  The keys are physically counted daily.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff members are trained and held responsible for adhering to proper    |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures for the handling of keys.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Issued keys are returned immediately in the event an employee inadvertently  |        |            |       |                                              |
|carries a key ring home.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a key or key ring is lost, misplaced, or not accounted for, the shift   |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor is immediately notified.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not permitted to handle keys assigned to staff.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Locks and locking devices are continually inspected, maintained, and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|inventoried.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility has the position of Security Officer.  If not, a staff member  |        |            |       |                                              |
|appointed the collateral duties of security officer.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The designated key control officer is the only employee who is authorized to |        |            |       |                                              |
|add or remove a key from a ring.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The splitting of key rings into separate rings is not authorized.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                          |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard protects the community from harm and enhances facility security, safety, and good order by requiring that each facility have an    |
|ongoing, effective system of population counts and detainee accountability.                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Staff conduct a formal count at least once each 8 hours (no less than three  |        |            |       |                                              |
|counts per day).  At least one of these counts shall be a face to photo      |        |            |       |                                              |
|count.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Activities cease or are strictly controlled while a formal count is being    |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducted.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a system for counting each detainee, including those who are outside|        |            |       |                                              |
|the housing unit.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Formal counts in all units take place simultaneously.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers do not allow detainee participation in the count.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|A face-to-photo count follows each unsuccessful recount.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officers positively identify each detainee before counting him/her as        |        |            |       |                                              |
|present.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures cover informal and emergency counts.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The control officer (or other designated position) maintains an “out-count”  |        |            |       |                                              |
|record of all detainees temporarily out of the facility.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security officers and any other staff with responsibilities for conducting   |        |            |       |                                              |
|counts are provided adequate initial and periodic training in count          |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures, and that training is documented in each person’s training folder.|        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by ensuring that each officer assigned to a security    |
|post knows the procedures, duties, and responsibilities of that post.                                                                                      |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Every fixed post has a set of Post Orders.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, Post Orders are arranged in the required six-part folder   |        |            |       |                                              |
|format.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each set contains the latest inserts (emergency memoranda, etc.) and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|revisions.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One individual or department is responsible for keeping all Post Orders      |        |            |       |                                              |
|current with revisions that take place between reviews.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Review, updating, and reissuing of Post Orders occurs regularly and at least |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator authorizes all Post Order changes.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator has signed and dated the last page of every       |        |            |       |                                              |
|section.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Post Orders master file is available to all staff.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures keep Post Orders and logbooks secure from detainees at all times. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Copies of the applicable Post Orders are retained at the post only if secure |        |            |       |                                              |
|from detainee access.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervisors ensure that officers understand the Post Orders, regardless of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|whether the assignment is temporary, permanent, or due to an emergency.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, each time an officer receives a different post assignment, |        |            |       |                                              |
|he or she is required to read, sign, and date those Post Orders to indicate  |        |            |       |                                              |
|he or she has read and understands them.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Anyone assigned to an armed post qualifies with the post weapons before      |        |            |       |                                              |
|assuming post duty.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Post Orders for armed posts, and for posts that control access to the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|institution perimeter, clearly state that:                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any staff member who is taken hostage is considered to be under duress, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any order issued by such a person, regardless of his or her position of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|authority, is to be disregarded.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Post Orders for armed posts provide instructions for escape attempts.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Post Orders for housing units track the daily event schedule.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing unit post officers record all detainee activity in a log. The Post   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orders include instructions on maintaining the logbook.                      |        |            |       |                                              |

|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date









































|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by detecting, controlling, and properly disposing of    |
|contraband.                                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures governing searches of housing areas, |        |            |       |                                              |
|work areas and of detainees.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures require staff to employ the least intrusive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|method of body search practicable, as indicated by the type of contraband and|        |            |       |                                              |
|the method of suspected introduction or concealment.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures require staff to avoid unnecessary force during|        |            |       |                                              |
|searches and to preserve the dignity of the detainee being searched, to the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|extent practicable.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures require staff to leave a searched housing area,|        |            |       |                                              |
|work area and detainee property in its original order, to the extent         |        |            |       |                                              |
|practicable.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are pat searched and screened by metal detectors routinely to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|control contraband.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Strip Searches are conducted only when there is reasonable belief or         |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspicion that contraband may be concealed on the person, or a good          |        |            |       |                                              |
|opportunity for concealment has occurred, and when properly authorized by a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisor.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Body cavity searches are conducted by designated health personnel only when  |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized by the facility administrator (or acting administrator) on the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|basis of reasonable belief or suspicion that contraband may be concealed in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or on the detainee’s person.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|“Dry cells” are used for contraband detection only when there is reasonable  |        |            |       |                                              |
|belief of concealment, with proper authorization, and in accordance with     |        |            |       |                                              |
|required procedures                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Contraband that may be evidence in connection with a violation of a criminal |        |            |       |                                              |
|statute is preserved, inventoried, controlled, and stored so as to maintain  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and document the chain of custody.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Canines are not used in the presence of detainees                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 2– 14. SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard requires that facilities that house ICE/DRO detainees affirmatively act to prevent sexual abuse and assaults on detainees, provide |
|prompt and effective intervention and treatment for victims of sexual abuse and assault, and control, discipline, and prosecute the perpetrators of sexual |
|abuse and assault.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|For SPCs and CDFs, the written policy and procedure has been approved by the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Field Office Director.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tracking statistics and reports are readily available for review by the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|inspectors.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained, during orientation and in annual refresher training,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the prevention and intervention areas required by the Detention Standard. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the program in facility orientation and the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee handbook (or equivalent).                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Sexual Assault Awareness Notice is posted on all housing unit bulletin   |        |            |       |                                              |
|boards.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Sexual Assault Awareness Information brochure is available for detainees.|        |            |       |                                              |
|(Required in SPCs and CDFs.)                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are screened upon arrival for “high risk” sexual assaultive and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|sexual victimization potential and housed and counseled accordingly.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All incidents of sexual abuse or assault by a detainee on a detainee have    |        |            |       |                                              |
|been documented in the past year.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|All incidents or allegations of sexual abuse or assault by staff on a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee have been documented in the past year.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is prompt and effective intervention when any detainee is sexually     |        |            |       |                                              |
|abused or assaulted and policy and procedures for required chain-of-command  |        |            |       |                                              |
|reporting.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When there is an alleged sexual assault, staff conduct a thorough            |        |            |       |                                              |
|investigation, gather and maintain evidence, and make referrals to           |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate law enforcement agencies for possible prosecution.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When there is an alleged or proven sexual assault, the required notifications|        |            |       |                                              |
|are promptly made.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Victims of sexual abuse or assault are referred to specialized community     |        |            |       |                                              |
|resources for treatment and gathering of evidence.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|All records associated with claims of sexual abuse or assault are maintained,|        |            |       |                                              |
|and such incidents are specifically logged and tracked by a designated staff |        |            |       |                                              |
|coordinator.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                       |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm by segregating certain detainees from the general  |
|population in Special Management Units (SMUs) with an Administrative Segregation section for detainees segregated for administrative reasons and a         |
|Disciplinary Segregation section for detainees segregated for disciplinary reasons.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Written policy and procedures are in place for special management units.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in protective custody status in Administrative          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Segregation only when there is documentation that it is warranted and that no|        |            |       |                                              |
|reasonable alternatives are available.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation only after a finding by the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Institution Disciplinary Panel (IDP) or equivalent that the detainee is      |        |            |       |                                              |
|guilty of a high level prohibited act or rule violation.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Health care personnel are immediately informed when a detainee is|        |            |       |                                              |
|admitted to an SMU to provide assessment and review as indicated by health   |        |            |       |                                              |
|care protocols.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures to control and secure SMU entrances, |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband, tools, and food carts, in accordance with the Detention Standard |        |            |       |                                              |
|on Facility Security and Control.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The number of detainees confined to each cell or room does not exceed the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|capacity for which it was designed.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cells and rooms are well ventilated, adequately lit, appropriately heated and|        |            |       |                                              |
|maintained in a sanitary condition at all times.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Permanent housing logs are maintained in SMUs to record pertinent information|        |            |       |                                              |
|on detainees upon admission to and release from the unit, and in which       |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervisory staff and other officials record their visits to the unit.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A permanent log is maintained in each SMU to record all activities concerning|        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU detainees (meals served, recreation, visitors, etc.).                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, the SMU log records the detainee's name, A-number, housing |        |            |       |                                              |
|location, date admitted, reasons for admission, tentative release date for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in Disciplinary Segregation, the authorizing official, and date    |        |            |       |                                              |
|released.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, a separate log is maintained in the SMU that all persons   |        |            |       |                                              |
|visiting the unit must sign and record:                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The time and date of the visit, and                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any unusual activity or behavior of an individual detainee, with a follow-up |        |            |       |                                              |
|memorandum sent through the facility administrator to the detainee's file.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Special Management Housing Unit Record is maintained on each detainee in an|        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU:                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs form I-888 (Special Management Housing Unit Record) is prepared      |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately upon the detainee’s placement in the SMU.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In CDFs and IGSA facilities form I-888 or a comparable form is used.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs:                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|By the end of each shift, the special housing unit officer records:          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Whether the detainee ate, showered, exercised, and took any medication, and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any additional information, for example, if the detainee has a medical       |        |            |       |                                              |
|condition, has exhibited suicidal or assaultive behavior, etc.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a health care provider visits an SMU detainee, he or she signs that     |        |            |       |                                              |
|individual’s record, and the housing officer initials the record after all   |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical visits are completed and no later than the end of the shift.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon a detainee’s release from the SMU, the releasing officer attaches the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|entire housing unit record to the Administrative Segregation Order or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation Order and forwards it to the Supervisor for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|inclusion in the detainee’s detention file.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures concerning the property detainees may|        |            |       |                                              |
|retain in each type of segregation.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written policy and procedures concerning privileges detainees may  |        |            |       |                                              |
|have in each type of segregation.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|(In Administrative Segregation, detainees generally receive the same general |        |            |       |                                              |
|privileges as detainees in the general population, as is consistent with     |        |            |       |                                              |
|available resources and safety and security considerations.)                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Administrative Segregation are provided opportunities to spend  |        |            |       |                                              |
|time outside their cells (over and above the required recreation periods),   |        |            |       |                                              |
|for such activities as socializing, watching TV, and playing board games and |        |            |       |                                              |
|may be assigned to work details (for example, as orderlies in the SMU).      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are personally observed at least every 30 minutes in an    |        |            |       |                                              |
|irregular schedule and more often when warranted for some cases (violent,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|mentally disordered, bizarre behavior, suicidal).                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The shift supervisor sees each segregated detainee daily, including weekends |        |            |       |                                              |
|and holidays.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administrator (or designee) visits each SMU daily.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A health care provider visits every detainee in an SMU at least three times a|        |            |       |                                              |
|week, and detainees are provided any medications prescribed for them.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, a nurse, doctor or other appropriate health care           |        |            |       |                                              |
|professional visits the SMU at least once each workday and questions each    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee to identify any medical problems or requests.  Any action taken is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented in a separate logbook, and the medical visit is recorded on the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s SMU Housing Record (Form I-888).                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are provided three nutritionally adequate meals per day,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ordinarily from the general population menu.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs may shave and shower three times weekly and receive other  |        |            |       |                                              |
|basic services (laundry, hair care, barbering, clothing, bedding, linen) on  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the same basis as the general population.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only for documented medical or mental health reasons are detainees denied    |        |            |       |                                              |
|such items as clothing, mattress, bedding, linens, or a pillow.  If a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is so disturbed that he or she is likely to destroy clothing or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding or create a disturbance risking harm to self or others, the medical  |        |            |       |                                              |
|department is notified immediately and a regimen of treatment and control    |        |            |       |                                              |
|instituted by the medical officer.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU may write and receive letters the same as the general    |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in an SMU ordinarily retain visiting privileges.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate documentation was generated for any restricted or disallowed general|        |            |       |                                              |
|visits for a detainee in an SMU who violated visiting rules or whose behavior|        |            |       |                                              |
|indicated the detainee would be a threat to the security or good order of the|        |            |       |                                              |
|visiting room in the past year.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate documentation was generated, for any restricted or disallowed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|general visitation for a detainee in Administrative Segregation status       |        |            |       |                                              |
|because the detainee was charged with, or committed, a prohibited act having |        |            |       |                                              |
|to do with visiting guidelines or otherwise acted in a way that indicated the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee would be a threat to the orderly operation or security of the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|visiting room in the past year.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Under no circumstances is a detainee permitted to participate in general     |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation while in restraints.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, detainees in protective custody and violent and disruptive |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are not permitted to use the visitation room during normal         |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation hours.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, violent and disruptive detainees are limited to non-contact|        |            |       |                                              |
|visits and, in extreme cases, not permitted to visit.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in SMUs are not denied legal visitation.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are policy and procedures for a situation where special security       |        |            |       |                                              |
|precautions for legal visitation have to be implemented and for advising     |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal service providers and assistants prior to their visits.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs are allowed visits by members of the clergy, upon request, |        |            |       |                                              |
|unless it is determined a visit presents a risk to safety, security, or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|orderly operations.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs have access to reading materials, including religious      |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials.  In SPCs and CDFs, the Recreation Specialist offers each detainee |        |            |       |                                              |
|soft-bound, non-legal books on a rotating basis, provided no detainee has    |        |            |       |                                              |
|more than two books (excluding religious material) at any one time.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in SMUs have access to legal materials, in accordance with the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention Standard on Law Libraries and Legal Material.  Detainees are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|permitted to retain a reasonable amount of personal legal material in the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU, provided it does not create a safety, security and/or sanitation hazard.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee requests for access to legal material in their personal property are|        |            |       |                                              |
|accommodated as soon as possible and always within 24 hours of a detainee’s  |        |            |       |                                              |
|request.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Administrative Segregation or Disciplinary Segregation have the |        |            |       |                                              |
|same law library access as the general population, unless compelling and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented security concerns require limitations.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy and procedures provide for legal material to be brought to individuals|        |            |       |                                              |
|in Disciplinary Segregation under certain circumstances.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any denial of access to the law library is always:                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supported by compelling security concerns,                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|For the shortest period required for security, and                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Fully documented in the SMU housing logbook.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO is notified every time law library access is denied.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation for detainees in the SMU is separate from the general population. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has policy and procedures to ensure detainees who must be kept  |        |            |       |                                              |
|apart never participate in activities in the same location at the same time. |        |            |       |                                              |
|(For example, recreation for detainees in protective custody are separated   |        |            |       |                                              |
|from other detainees.)                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the SMU are offered at least one hour of recreation per day,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|scheduled at a reasonable time, at least five days per week.  Where cover is |        |            |       |                                              |
|not provided to mitigate inclement weather, detainees are provided           |        |            |       |                                              |
|weather-appropriate equipment and attire.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The recreation privilege is denied or suspended only if it would unreasonably|        |            |       |                                              |
|endanger safety or security.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, a detainee is denied recreation privileges only with the facility|        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator’s written authorization that documents why the detainee poses  |        |            |       |                                              |
|an unreasonable risk even when recreating alone.  For an immediate safety or |        |            |       |                                              |
|security situation, the shift supervisor may verbally authorize denial of an |        |            |       |                                              |
|instance of recreation.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee in an SMU is deprived of recreation (or any usual authorized |        |            |       |                                              |
|items or activity), a report of the action is forwarded to the facility      |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The case of a detainee denied recreation privileges is reviewed at least once|        |            |       |                                              |
|each week, as part of the reviews required for all detainees in SMU status.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The reviewer documents whether the detainee continues to pose a threat to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|self, others, or facility security and, if so, why.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Denial of recreation privileges for more than 15 days requires the           |        |            |       |                                              |
|concurrence of the facility administrator and the health authority.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility notifies ICE/DRO when a detainee is denied recreation privileges|        |            |       |                                              |
|for more than 15 days.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, detainees in Administrative Segregation have telephone access    |        |            |       |                                              |
|similar to detainees in the general population, in a manner consistent with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the special security and safety requirements of an SMU.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in Disciplinary Segregation may be restricted from using telephones|        |            |       |                                              |
|to make general calls as part of the disciplinary process; however,          |        |            |       |                                              |
|ordinarily, they are permitted to make direct and/or free and legal calls as |        |            |       |                                              |
|described in the Detention Standard on Telephone Access, except for          |        |            |       |                                              |
|compelling and documented reasons of safety, security, and good order.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, a written order is completed and approved by a supervisor before |        |            |       |                                              |
|a detainee is placed in Administrative Segregation.  If exigent circumstances|        |            |       |                                              |
|make that impracticable, the order is prepared as soon as possible.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A copy of the order is given to the detainee within 24 hours, unless delivery|        |            |       |                                              |
|would jeopardize the safety, security, or orderly operation of the facility. |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the segregation is for protective custody, the order states whether the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee requested the segregation and whether the detainee requests a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|hearing.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The order remains on file in the SMU until the detainee is released from the |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU, at which point the releasing officer records the date and time of       |        |            |       |                                              |
|release on the order and forwards it to the chief of security or supervisor  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for the detainee’s detention file.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|(An Administrative Segregation Order is not required for a detainee awaiting |        |            |       |                                              |
|removal, release, or transfer within 24 hours.)                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are implemented written procedures for the regular review of all       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in Administrative Segregation.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A supervisor conducts a review within 72 hours of the detainee’s placement in|        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrative Segregation to determine whether segregation is still         |        |            |       |                                              |
|warranted. The review includes an interview with the detainee, and a written |        |            |       |                                              |
|record is made of the decision and the justification.  In SPCs and CDFs, the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrative Segregation Review Form (I-885) is used.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee is segregated for the detainee's protection, but not at the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee's request, continued detention requires the authorizing signature of|        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility administrator or assistant facility administrator on the I-885. |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee has spent seven days in Administrative Segregation, and every|        |            |       |                                              |
|week thereafter for the first 60 days and at least every 30 days thereafter, |        |            |       |                                              |
|a supervisor conducts a similar review, including an interview with the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, and documents the decision and justification.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A reviewing authority who concludes a detainee should be removed from        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrative Segregation, submits that recommendation to the facility      |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator (or designee) for approval.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|A copy of the decision and justification for each review is given to the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, unless, in exceptional circumstances, this provision would         |        |            |       |                                              |
|jeopardize security.  The detainee is given an opportunity to appeal a review|        |            |       |                                              |
|decision to a higher authority within the facility.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|After seven consecutive days in Administrative Segregation, the detainee may |        |            |       |                                              |
|exercise the right to appeal to the facility administrator the conclusions   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and recommendations of any review conducted.  The detainee may use any       |        |            |       |                                              |
|standard form of written communication (for example, detainee request form), |        |            |       |                                              |
|to file the appeal.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee has been in Administrative Segregation for more than 30 days   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and objects to this status, the facility administrator reviews the case to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|determine whether that status should continue, taking into account the views |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the detainee.  A written record is made of the decision and the           |        |            |       |                                              |
|justification.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A similar review is done every 30 days thereafter.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee has been held in Administrative Segregation for more than 30 |        |            |       |                                              |
|days, the facility administrator notifies the Field Office Director, who     |        |            |       |                                              |
|notifies the ICE/DRO Deputy Assistant Director, Detention Management         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Division.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee is held in Administrative Segregation for more than 60 days, |        |            |       |                                              |
|the Field Office Director notifies, in writing, the Deputy Assistant         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Director, Detention Management Division for consideration of whether it would|        |            |       |                                              |
|be appropriate to transfer the detainee to a facility where he or she may be |        |            |       |                                              |
|placed in the general population.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation only by order of the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Institutional Disciplinary Panel (IDP), or equivalent, after a hearing in    |        |            |       |                                              |
|which the detainee has been found guilty of a prohibited act.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The maximum of a 60 day sanction in Disciplinary Segregation for a violation |        |            |       |                                              |
|associated with a single incident.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|After the first 30 days in Disciplinary Segregation, the facility            |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator sends a written justification to the Field Office Director, who|        |            |       |                                              |
|may decide to transfer the detainee to a facility where he or she could be   |        |            |       |                                              |
|placed in the general population.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before a detainee is placed in Disciplinary Segregation, a written order is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|completed and signed by the chair of the IDP (or equivalent).  A copy is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|given to the detainee within 24 hours (unless delivery would jeopardize      |        |            |       |                                              |
|safety, security, or the orderly operation of the facility).                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The IDP chairman (or equivalent) prepares the Disciplinary Segregation Order |        |            |       |                                              |
|(I-883 or equivalent), detailing the reasons for Disciplinary Segregation and|        |            |       |                                              |
|attaching all relevant documentation.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the detainee is released from the SMU, the releasing officer records the|        |            |       |                                              |
|date and time of release on the Disciplinary Segregation Order, and forwards |        |            |       |                                              |
|the completed order to the chief of security or supervisor for insertion into|        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee’s detention file.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has implemented written procedures for the regular review of all|        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation cases.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A supervisor, interviews and reviews the status of each detainee in          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation every seven days and documents his or her findings  |        |            |       |                                              |
|on a Disciplinary Segregation Review Form (I-887).                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|At each formal review, the detainee is to be given a written copy of the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|reviewing officer’s decision and the basis for this finding, unless          |        |            |       |                                              |
|institutional security would be compromised.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The reviewer may recommend the detainee’s early release upon finding that    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Segregation is no longer necessary to regulate the detainee’s   |        |            |       |                                              |
|behavior.  Early release and return to the general population requires       |        |            |       |                                              |
|approval of the facility administrator.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All review documents are placed in the detainee's detention file.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                      |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard enhances security, safety, and orderly facility operations by encouraging and requiring informal direct and written contact among  |
|staff and detainees, as well as informal supervisory observation of living and working conditions.                                                         |
|                                                                                                                                                           |
|It also requires the posting of Hotline informational posters from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General.                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The ICE/DRO Field Office Director ensures that     weekly announced and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|unannounced visits occur.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention Staff and Deportation Staff conduct scheduled weekly visits with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Scheduled visits are posted in ICE/DRO detainee housing areas.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visiting ICE staff observe and note current climate and conditions of        |        |            |       |                                              |
|confinement.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO Detainee Request Forms are available for use by ICE/DRO detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility treats detainee correspondence to ICE/DRO staff as Special      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|A secure box is located in an accessible location for detainee’s to place    |        |            |       |                                              |
|their Detainee Request Forms.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only ICE staff are able to retrieve the contents of the secure box containing|        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee Request Forms,                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO staff respond to a detainee request from a facility within 72 hours  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and document the response in a log.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO detainees are notified in writing upon admission to the facility of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|their right to correspond with ICE/DRO staff regarding their case or         |        |            |       |                                              |
|conditions of confinement.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|OIG Hotline Informational Posters are mounted in all appropriate common areas|        |            |       |                                              |
|(recreation, dining, etc.) and, in SPCs and CDFs, in all housing areas.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Daily telephone serviceability checks are documented in the housing unit     |        |            |       |                                              |
|logbook.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


  |PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, and volunteers from harm and contributes to orderly facility operations by maintaining     |
|control of tools, culinary utensils, and medical and dental instruments, equipment, and supplies.                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) There is an individual who is responsible for developing a tool  |        |            |       |                                              |
|control procedure and an inspection system to insure accountability.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the warehouse is located outside the secure perimeter, the warehouse      |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives all tool deliveries.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the warehouse is located inside the secure perimeter the facility         |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator shall develop site-specific procedures, for example; storing   |        |            |       |                                              |
|tools at the rear sallyport until picked up and receipted by the tool control|        |            |       |                                              |
|officer.  The tool control officer immediately places certain tools (band saw|        |            |       |                                              |
|blades, files and all restricted tools) in secure storage.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The use of tools, keys, medical equipment, and culinary equipment|        |            |       |                                              |
|is controlled.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A metal or plastic chit is taken in exchange for all tools issued, and when a|        |            |       |                                              |
|tool is issued from a shadow board the receipt chit shall be visible on the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|shadow board.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tool inventories are required for:                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Maintenance Department                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Department                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food Service Department                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronics Shop                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation Department                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Armory                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tool Inventories are conspicuously posted on all tool boards, tool boxes and |        |            |       |                                              |
|tool kits.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a policy for the regular inventory of all tools.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The policy sets minimum time lines for physical inventory and all necessary  |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE facilities use AMIS bar code labels when required.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a tool classification system. Tools are classified according|        |            |       |                                              |
|to:                                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restricted (dangerous/hazardous)                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non Restricted (non-hazardous).                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Department heads are responsible for implementing proper tool control        |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures as described in the standard.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are policies and procedures in place to ensure that all tools are      |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly marked and readily identifiable.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has an approved tool storage system.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The system ensures that all stored tools are accountable.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools are stored on shadow boards in which the shadows resemble the tool.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Shadow boards have a white background.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restricted tools are shadowed in red.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Non-restricted tools are shadowed in black.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Commonly used tools (tools that can be mounted) are stored in such a way that|        |            |       |                                              |
|missing tools are readily noticed.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools removed from service have their shadows removed from shadow boards.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tools not adaptable to a shadow board are stored in a locked drawer or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|cabinet.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sterile packs are stored under lock and key.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each facility has procedures for the issuance of tools to staff and          |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are policies and procedures to address the issue of lost tools.  The   |        |            |       |                                              |
|policy and procedures include:                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Verbal and written notification.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures for detainee access.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Necessary documentation/review for all incidents of lost tools.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Broken or worn out tools are surveyed and disposed of in an appropriate and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|secure manner.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All private or contract repairs and maintenance workers under contract with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE, or other visitors, submit an inventory of all tools prior to admittance |        |            |       |                                              |
|into or departure from the facility. The inventory is reviewed and verified  |        |            |       |                                              |
|prior to the contractor entering/departing the facility.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hoses longer than three feet in length are classified as a restricted tool.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Scissors used for in-processing detainees are tethered to the furniture (e.g.|        |            |       |                                              |
|table, counter, etc.) where they are used.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)

Reviewer’s Signature / Date
|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard authorizes staff to use necessary physical force, after all reasonable efforts to otherwise resolve a situation have failed, and   |
|only for protection of self, detainees, or others, for prevention of escape or serious property damage, or to maintain the security and orderly operation  |
|of the facility.                                                                                                                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has a Use of Force Policy.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy authorizes staff to respond in an immediate-use-of-force      |        |            |       |                                              |
|situation without a supervisor’s presence or direction.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the detainee is in an area that is or can be isolated (e.g., a locked   |        |            |       |                                              |
|cell, a range), posing no direct threat to the detainee or others, policy    |        |            |       |                                              |
|requires that staff must try to resolve the situation without resorting to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|force.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written policy asserts that calculated rather than immediate use of force is |        |            |       |                                              |
|feasible in most cases.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility subscribes to the prescribed Confrontation Avoidance Procedures.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Ranking detention official, health professional, and others confer before    |        |            |       |                                              |
|every calculated use of force.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|When a detainee must be forcibly moved and/or restrained and there is time   |        |            |       |                                              |
|for a calculated use of force, staff use the Use-of-Force Team Technique.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Under staff supervision.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff members are trained in the performance of the Use-of-Force Team        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Technique.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All use-of-force incidents are documented and reviewed.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|All use of force incidents are properly documented and forwarded for review; |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediate use of force documentation at a minimum, shall include the medical |        |            |       |                                              |
|examination through the conclusion of the incident.  All calculated uses of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|force incidents must be audio visually recorded in its entirety from the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|beginning of the incident to its conclusion.  Any breaks in recording, e.g., |        |            |       |                                              |
|dead batteries, tape exhausted, are fully explained on the video.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff:                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Does not use force as punishment.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Attempts to gain the detainee's voluntary cooperation   before resorting to  |        |            |       |                                              |
|force                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses only as much force as necessary to control the    detainee.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Uses restraints only when other non-confrontational      means, including    |        |            |       |                                              |
|verbal persuasion, have failed or are  impractical.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medication may only be used for restraint purposes when authorized by the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Authority as medically necessary.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Use-of-Force Teams follow written procedures that attempt to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|prevent injury and exposure to communicable disease(s).                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard procedures associated with using four/five point restraints include:|        |            |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Soft (nylon/leather) restraints.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dressing the detainee appropriately for the temperature.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A bed, mattress, and blanket/sheet.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Checking the detainee at least every 15 minutes.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Logging each check.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Repositioning detainee often enough to prevent soreness or stiffness.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical evaluation of the restrained detainee twice per eight-hour shift.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When qualified medical staff is not immediately available, staff position the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee "face-up."                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The shift supervisor monitors the detainee's position/condition every two    |        |            |       |                                              |
|hours.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|He/she allows the detainee to use the restroom at these times under          |        |            |       |                                              |
|safeguards.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainee checks are logged.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|In immediate-use-of-force situations, officers contact medical staff once the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is under control.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the Facility Administrator authorizes use of non-lethal weapons:        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff is consulted before staff use pepper spray/non-lethal weapons. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff review the detainee's medical file before use of a non-lethal  |        |            |       |                                              |
|weapon is authorized.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Intermediate Force Weapons, when not in use are stored in areas where access |        |            |       |                                              |
|is limited to authorized personnel and to which detainees have no access.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|If Intermediate Force Weapons are stored in the Special Management Unit      |        |            |       |                                              |
|(SMU), they are stored and maintained the same as Class R tools.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special precautions are taken when restraining pregnant detainees.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical personnel are consulted                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Protective gear is worn when restraining detainees with open cuts or wounds. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff documents every use of force ,including what type of restraints were   |        |            |       |                                              |
|used during the incident.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|It is standard practice to review any use of force and the non-routine       |        |            |       |                                              |
|application of restraints.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All officers receive training in self-defense, confrontation-avoidance       |        |            |       |                                              |
|techniques and the use of force to control detainees.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specialized training is given to officers ensuring they are certified in all |        |            |       |                                              |
|devices approved for use.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff authorized to use OC spray receive training not only in its use,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|but also in the decontamination of individuals exposed to it. This training  |        |            |       |                                              |
|must be documented in the staff training record.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The use of canines is restricted to contraband detection purposes only.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The officers are thoroughly trained in the use of soft and hard restraints.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs, the Use of Force form is used.  In other facilities (IGSAs / CDFs)  |        |            |       |                                              |
|this form or its equivalent is used.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                                   |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date














Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section III ORDER

19 Disciplinary System

|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard promotes a safe and orderly living environment for detainees by expecting detainees to comply with facility rules and regulations  |
|and imposing disciplinary sanctions to control the behavior of those who do not.                                                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written disciplinary system using progressive levels of   |        |            |       |                                              |
|reviews and appeals.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility rules state that disciplinary action shall not be capricious or |        |            |       |                                              |
|retaliatory.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written rules prohibit staff from imposing or permitting the following       |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanctions:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|corporal punishment                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|deviations from normal food service                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing deprivation                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|bedding deprivation                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|denial of personal hygiene items                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|loss of correspondence privileges                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|deprivation of legal access and legal materials                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|deprivation of physical exercise                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The rules of conduct, sanctions, and procedures for violations are defined in|        |            |       |                                              |
|writing and communicated to all detainees verbally and in writing.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The following items are conspicuously posted in Spanish and English or other |        |            |       |                                              |
|dominate languages used in the facility:                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and Responsibilities                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited Acts                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Severity Scale                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sanctions                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|When minor rule violations or prohibited acts occur, informal resolutions are|        |            |       |                                              |
|encouraged.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incident Reports and Notice of Charges are promptly forwarded to the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|designated supervisor.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incident Reports are investigated within 24 hours of the incident.  The Unit |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary Committee (UDC) or equivalent does not convene before           |        |            |       |                                              |
|investigations end.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|An intermediate disciplinary process is used to adjudicate minor infractions.|        |            |       |                                              |
|A disciplinary panel (or equivalent in IGSAs) adjudicates infractions.  The  |        |            |       |                                              |
|panel:                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Conducts hearings on all charges and allegations referred by the UDC         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Considers written reports, statements, physical evidence, and oral testimony |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hears pleadings by detainee and staff representative                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bases its findings on the preponderance of evidence                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Imposes only authorized sanctions                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A staff representative is available if requested for a detainee facing a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|disciplinary hearing                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility permits hearing postponements or continuances when conditions   |        |            |       |                                              |
|warrant such a continuance.  Reasons are documented.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The duration of punishment set by the Facility Administrator, as recommended |        |            |       |                                              |
|by the disciplinary panel does not exceed established sanctions. The maximum |        |            |       |                                              |
|time in disciplinary segregation does not exceed 60 days for a single        |        |            |       |                                              |
|offense.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern the handling of confidential-source information.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include criteria for recognizing "substantial evidence".          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All forms relevant to the incident, investigation, committee/panel reports,  |        |            |       |                                              |
|etc., are completed and distributed as required.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section IV CARE

20    Food Service
21    Hunger Strikes
22    Medical Care
23    Personal Hygiene
24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees are provided a nutritionally balanced diet that is prepared and presented in a sanitary and hygienic food   |
|service operation.                                                                                                                                         |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The food service program is under the direct supervision of a professionally |        |            |       |                                              |
|trained and certified Food Service Administrator (FSA). The Responsibilities |        |            |       |                                              |
|of cooks and cook foremen are in writing.  The FSA determines the            |        |            |       |                                              |
|responsibilities of the Food Service Staff.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman is on duty on days when the FSA is off duty and vice versa. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA provides food service employees with training that specifically      |        |            |       |                                              |
|addresses detainee-related issues. In ICE Facilities this includes a review  |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the "Food Service" standard                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Knife cabinets close with an approved locking device and the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|on-duty cook foreman maintains control of the key that locks the device.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Knives and keys are inventoried and stored in accordance with the Detention  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Tool Control                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All knives not in a secure cutting room are physically secured to the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstation and staff directly supervise detainees using knives at these     |        |            |       |                                              |
|workstations. Staff monitor the condition of knives and dining utensils      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special procedures (when necessary) govern the handling of food items that   |        |            |       |                                              |
|pose a security threat.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operating procedures include daily searches (shakedowns) of detainee work    |        |            |       |                                              |
|areas.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA monitors staff implementation of the facility population count       |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures. These procedures are in writing. Staff are trained in count      |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) There is adequate health protection for all detainees and staff  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility, and for all persons working in food service.  Detainees and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other persons working in food service are monitored each day for health and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|cleanliness by the food service supervisor or designee. Detainee clothing and|        |            |       |                                              |
|grooming comply with the "Food Service" standard.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA annually reviews detainee-volunteer job descriptions to ensure they  |        |            |       |                                              |
|are accurate and up-to-date.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman or equivalent instructs newly assigned detainee workers in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the rules and procedures of the food service department.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|During orientation and training session(s), the Cook Supervisor (CS) explains|        |            |       |                                              |
|and demonstrates:                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safe work practices and methods.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safety features of individual products/ pieces of equipment.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training covers the safe handling of hazardous material[s] the detainee are  |        |            |       |                                              |
|likely to encounter in their work.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman documents all training in individual detainee detention     |        |            |       |                                              |
|files.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees at SPCs and CDFs are paid in accordance with the “Voluntary Work   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program” standard.  Detainee workers at IGSAs are subject to local and State |        |            |       |                                              |
|rules and regulations regarding detainee pay.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are served at least two hot meals every day.  No more than 14 hours|        |            |       |                                              |
|elapse between the last meal served and the first meal of the following day. |        |            |       |                                              |
|For cafeteria-style operations, a transparent "sneeze guard" protects both   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the serving line and salad bar line.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a standard 35-day menu cycle.  IGSAs use a 35 day or similar|        |            |       |                                              |
|system for rotating meals.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) A registered dietitian conducts a complete nutritional analysis, |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least every six months, of every master-cycle menu planned by the FSA.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The dietitian certifies menus before implementation.  If necessary, the FSA  |        |            |       |                                              |
|modifies the menu in light of the nutritional analysis, to ensure nutritional|        |            |       |                                              |
|adequacy.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The cycle is reevaluated to maintain the integrity of the nutritional        |        |            |       |                                              |
|analysis.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|A registered dietitian conducts a complete nutritional analysis of every     |        |            |       |                                              |
|master-cycle menu planned.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The FSA has established procedures to ensure that items on the master-cycle  |        |            |       |                                              |
|menu are prepared and presented according to approved recipes.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Cook Foreman has the authority to change menu items if necessary.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|If yes, documenting each substitution, along with its justification, with    |        |            |       |                                              |
|copy to the FSA                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff and volunteers know and adhere to written "food preparation"       |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A Common Fare menu available to detainees, at no charge, whose dietary       |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements cannot be met on the main.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Changes to the planned Common Fare menu can be made at the facility level.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hot entrees are offered three times a week.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Common Fare menus satisfy nutritional recommended daily allowances       |        |            |       |                                              |
|(RDAs).                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff routinely provides hot water for instant beverages and foods.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Common Fare meals are served with:                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disposable plates and utensils.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reusable plates and utensils.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff use separate cutting boards, knives, spoons, scoops, etc., to prepare  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the Common Fare diet items.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees whose religious beliefs require the adherence to particular        |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious dietary laws are referred to the Chaplain or FSA.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A supervisor at the command level must approve a detainee’s removal from the |        |            |       |                                              |
|Common Fare Program.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator, in conjunction with the chaplain and/or local    |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious leaders provide the FSA a schedule of the ceremonial meals for the |        |            |       |                                              |
|following calendar year.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Common Fare Program accommodates detainees abstaining from particular    |        |            |       |                                              |
|foods or fasting for religious purposes at prescribed times of the year.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Muslims fasting during Ramadan receive their meals after sundown.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Jews who observe Passover but do not participate in the Common Fare Program  |        |            |       |                                              |
|receive the same Kosher-for- Passover meals as those who do participate.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Main-line offerings include one meatless meal (lunch or dinner) on Ash       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Wednesday and Fridays during Lent.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The food service program addresses medical diets.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Satellite-feeding programs follow guidelines for proper sanitation.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hot and cold foods are maintained at the prescribed, "safe" temperature(s) as|        |            |       |                                              |
|served.  See Detention Standard on Food Service for guidance.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|All meals provided in nutritionally adequate portions.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food is not used to punish or reward detainees based upon behavior.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The food service staff instructs detainee volunteers on:                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal cleanliness and hygiene;                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sanitary techniques for preparing, storing, and serving food, and;           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The sanitary operation, care, and maintenance of equipment.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Everyone working in the food service department complies with food safety and|        |            |       |                                              |
|sanitation requirements.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility implements written procedures for the               |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrative, medical, and/or dietary personnel conducting the weekly      |        |            |       |                                              |
|inspections of all food service areas, including dining, storage, equipment, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and food-preparation areas.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reports of discrepancies are forwarded to the Facility Administrator or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|designated department head and corrective action is scheduled and completed. |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Standard procedure includes checking and documenting temperatures|        |            |       |                                              |
|of all dishwashing machines after each meal, in accordance with the Detention|        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Food Service.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Staff documents the results of every refrigerator/ freezer       |        |            |       |                                              |
|temperature check, in accordance with the Detention Standard on Food Service.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The cleaning schedule for each food service area is conspicuously posted.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include inspecting all incoming food shipments for damage,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|contamination, and pest infestation.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Storage areas are locked when not in use.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food service personnel conduct shakedowns along with detention staff.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs only:  The ICE supervisor on duty ensures that ICE officers          |        |            |       |                                              |
|participate in dining room supervision.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Menus are certified by a registered dietitian prior to being incorporated    |        |            |       |                                              |
|into the Food Service Program.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs only: the FSA prepares quarterly cost estimates for the Common Fare  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program. This quarterly estimate is factored into the quarterly budget.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|When required, only food service staff prepares the sack lunches for detainee|        |            |       |                                              |
|transportation.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Air curtains or comparable devices are used on outside doors where food is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|prepared, stored, or served to protect against insects and other rodents.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff complies with the ICE requirements for "food receipt and storage.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Stock inventory levels are monitored and adjusted to correct overage and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|shortage problems.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff complies with all ICE Housekeeping, Storeroom/Refrigerator             |        |            |       |                                              |
|requirements. Identify and explain any shortcomings.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dining room facilities and operating procedures will provide sufficient space|        |            |       |                                              |
|and time for detainees to eat meals in a relatively relaxed, unregimented    |        |            |       |                                              |
|atmosphere.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY)  An independent, external source shall conduct annual inspections|        |            |       |                                              |
|to ensure that the food service facilities and equipment meet governmental   |        |            |       |                                              |
|health and safety codes.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Corrective action is taken on deficiencies, if any.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel inspecting the food service department shall note needed corrective|        |            |       |                                              |
|action(s), if any, in a written report to the Facility Administrator.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Only those toxic and caustic materials required for sanitary maintenance of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility, equipment, and utensils shall be used in the food service      |        |            |       |                                              |
|department. Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDSs) will be maintained on all    |        |            |       |                                              |
|flammable, toxic, and caustic substances used.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The FSA is responsible for pest control in the food service      |        |            |       |                                              |
|department, including contracting the services of an outside exterminator.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date







|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well-being by monitoring, counseling and, when appropriate, treating any detainee who is on a hunger|
|strike.                                                                                                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|When a detainee has refused food or observed to have not eaten for 72 hours, |        |            |       |                                              |
|it is standard practice for staff to refer him or her to the medical         |        |            |       |                                              |
|department.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility immediately reports via the chain of command a hunger strike to     |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE/DRO.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has established procedures to ensure staff respond immediately  |        |            |       |                                              |
|to a hunger strike.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Policy and procedure require that staff isolate a hunger-striking detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|from other detainees.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical personnel are authorized to place a detainee in the Special          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management Unit or a locked hospital room.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff records the weight and vital signs of a hunger-striking        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee at least once every 24 hours.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility medical authority obtains a hunger striker’s consent before     |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical treatment.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|A signed Refusal of Treatment form is required of every detainee who rejects |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical evaluation or treatment, or two staff/provider signatures indicating |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee refusal to sign form.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Unless otherwise directed by the medical authority, staff deliver three meals|        |            |       |                                              |
|per day to the detainee's room, regardless of the detainee's response to a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|verbally offered meal and document those meal offers.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintain the hunger striker’s supply of drinking water/other beverages.|        |            |       |                                              |
|During a hunger strike, staff remove all food items from the hunger striker’s|        |            |       |                                              |
|living area.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are directed to record the hunger striker’s fluid intake and food      |        |            |       |                                              |
|consumption on the Hunger Strike Monitoring Form I-839 or equivalent.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical staff has written procedures for treating hunger strikers.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff document all treatment attempts in the medical record, including       |        |            |       |                                              |
|attempts to persuade the hunger striker by counseling him or her of the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical risks.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive orientation and annual training on recognizing the signs of|        |            |       |                                              |
|a hunger striker and on the procedures for referral for medical assessment.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff receive training in hunger-strike evaluation and treatment and |        |            |       |                                              |
|remain up-to-date on these techniques.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees have access to a continuum of health care services, including prevention and health education, so that their|
|health care needs are met in a timely and efficient manner.                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility operates a health care facility in compliance with state and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|local laws and guidelines.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s in-processing procedures of arriving detainees include medical|        |            |       |                                              |
|screening.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The essential positions needed to perform the health services    |        |            |       |                                              |
|mission and provide the required scope of services are described in a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|staffing plan that is reviewed at least annually by the health authority.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Newly admitted detainees will be informed, orally and in writing |        |            |       |                                              |
|(in a language they can understand), about how to access health services.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees will have access to and receive specified 24-hour emergency        |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical, dental, and mental health services.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|New direct care staff will receive tuberculosis tests prior to their job     |        |            |       |                                              |
|assignment and periodically thereafter and will be offered the hepatitis B   |        |            |       |                                              |
|vaccine series.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health care services will be provided by trained and qualified personnel,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|whose duties are governed by job descriptions and who are properly licensed, |        |            |       |                                              |
|certified, credentialed, and/or registered in compliance with applicable     |        |            |       |                                              |
|state and federal requirements.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides each detainee, upon admittance, a copy of the detainee |        |            |       |                                              |
|handbook or equivalent, in which procedures for access to health care        |        |            |       |                                              |
|services are explained (in a language they can understand).                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, medical personnel credentialing and verification complies  |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the standards established by the NCCHC and JCAHO.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Immediately upon their arrival, all newly admitted detainees receive initial |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical, dental and mental health screening by a health care provider or a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detention officer specially trained to perform this function.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|When screening is performed by a detention officer, the facility maintains   |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation of the officer’s special training.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) If language difficulties prevent the health care provider/officer|        |            |       |                                              |
|from sufficiently communicating with the detainee for purposes of completing |        |            |       |                                              |
|the medical screening, the officer obtains translation assistance.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has sufficient space and equipment to afford each detainee      |        |            |       |                                              |
|privacy when receiving health care.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical facility has its own restricted-access area.  The restricted     |        |            |       |                                              |
|access area is located within the confines of the secure perimeter.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical facility entrance includes a holding/waiting room.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical facility’s holding/waiting room under the direct supervision of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|custodial staff.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the holding/waiting room have access to a toilet and a drinking |        |            |       |                                              |
|fountain.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical records are kept apart from other files.  They are:                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Secured in a locked area within the medical unit.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|With physical access restricted to authorized medical staff.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedurally, no copies made and placed in detainee files.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|18.  (MANDATORY) A signed and dated consent form is obtained from a detainee |        |            |       |                                              |
|before medical treatment is administered.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees use the I-813 (or IGSA equivalent) to authorize the release of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|confidential medical records to outside sources.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility health care provider is given advance notice prior to the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|release, transfer, or removal of a detainee.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|A detainee's medical records will be transferred as appropriate.  All        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees will be transferred with a copy of their transfer summary.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical records are placed in a sealed envelope or other container labeled   |        |            |       |                                              |
|with the detainee's name and A-number and marked "MEDICAL CONFIDENTIAL.”     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical screening includes a Tuberculosis (TB) test.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All detainees receive a mental-health screening upon arrival.  It is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducted:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|By a health care provider or specially trained officer;                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before a detainee’s assignment to a housing unit.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility health care provider promptly reviews all I-794s (or equivalent)|        |            |       |                                              |
|to identify detainees needing medical attention.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Each facility’s health care provider conducts a health appraisal |        |            |       |                                              |
|and physical examination on each detainee within 14 days of arrival.  If     |        |            |       |                                              |
|there is documentation of one within the previous 90 days, the facility      |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care provider may determine that a new appraisal is not required.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the Special Management Unit have access to the same level of    |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care as detainees in the general population.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff provides detainees with health- services (sick call) request slips     |        |            |       |                                              |
|daily, upon request.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Request slips are available in the languages other than English, including   |        |            |       |                                              |
|every language spoken by a sizeable number of the facility’s detainee        |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Service-request slips are delivered in a timely fashion to the health care   |        |            |       |                                              |
|provider.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The facility has a written plan for the delivery of 24-hour      |        |            |       |                                              |
|emergency health care when no medical personnel are on duty at the facility, |        |            |       |                                              |
|or when immediate outside medical attention is required.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan includes an on-call provider.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan includes a list of telephone numbers for local ambulances and       |        |            |       |                                              |
|hospital services.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The plan includes procedures for facility staff to utilize this emergency    |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care consistent with security and safety.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Detention and health care personnel will be trained, at least    |        |            |       |                                              |
|annually, to respond to health-related situations within four minutes and to |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly use first aid kits, available in designated areas.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Where staff is used to distribute medication, a health care provider properly|        |            |       |                                              |
|trains these officers.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Pharmaceuticals and nonprescription medicines will be stored, inventoried,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|dispensed, and administered in accordance with sound standards and facility  |        |            |       |                                              |
|needs for safety and security.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Each facility has written policy and procedures for the          |        |            |       |                                              |
|management of pharmaceuticals that include:                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|A formulary of all prescription and nonprescription medicines stocked or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|routinely procured from outside sources.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|A method for obtaining medicines not on the formulary.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prescription practices, including requirements that medications are          |        |            |       |                                              |
|prescribed only when clinically indicated and that prescriptions are reviewed|        |            |       |                                              |
|before being renewed.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procurement, receipt, distribution, storage, dispensing, administration, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|disposal of medications.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Secure storage and perpetual inventory of all controlled substances (DEA     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Schedule II-V), syringes, and needles.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|All pharmaceuticals are stored in a secure area with the following features: |        |            |       |                                              |
|A secure perimeter;                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Access limited to authorized medical staff (never detainees);                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Solid walls from floor to ceiling and a solid ceiling;                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|A solid core entrance door with a high security lock (with no other access); |        |            |       |                                              |
|and                                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A secure medication storage area.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, the pharmacy  has a locking pass-through window.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administration and management in accordance with state and federal law.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervision by properly licensed personnel.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administration of medications by personnel properly trained and under the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervision of the health services administrator, or equivalent.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accountability for administering or distributing medications in a timely     |        |            |       |                                              |
|manner and according to physician orders.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Distribution of medication is in accordance with specific instructions and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures established by the health care provider.  Written records of all  |        |            |       |                                              |
|medication given to detainees are maintained.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medication may not be delivered or administered by detainees.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|In facilities that are medically staffed 24 hours a day, the health care     |        |            |       |                                              |
|provider distributes medication.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|In facilities that are not medically staffed 24 hours a day, medication may  |        |            |       |                                              |
|be distributed by detention officers, who have received proper training by   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the health care provider, only when medication must be delivered at a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|specific time when medical staff are not on duty.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintains documentation of the training given any officer       |        |            |       |                                              |
|required to distribute medication, and the officer has available for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|reference the training syllabus or other guide or protocol provided by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|health authority.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Warden/Facility receive notification that a detainee that has special    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical needs.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures are in place, consistent with the detention standard, for         |        |            |       |                                              |
|examinations by independent medical service providers and experts.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Each facility has a written plan (or plans) that address the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|management of infectious and communicable diseases, including prevention,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|education, identification, surveillance, immunization (when applicable),     |        |            |       |                                              |
|treatment, follow-up, isolation (when indicated), and reporting to local,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|state, and federal agencies. Plans include:                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Coordination with public health authorities;                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ongoing education for staff and detainees;                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Control, treatment, and prevention strategies;                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Protection of individual confidentiality;                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Media relations;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management of tuberculosis, hepatitis A, B, and C, HIV infection, avian      |        |            |       |                                              |
|influenza, and                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting communicable diseases to local and/or state health departments in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accordance with local and state regulations.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees diagnosed with a communicable disease are isolated according to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|local medical operating procedures.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new arrivals receive TB screening in accordance with guidelines of the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Centers for Disease Control (CDC).  Unless a chest x-ray is the primary      |        |            |       |                                              |
|screening method, the PPD (mantoux method) is the primary screening method.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|(For a detainee on whom the PPD is contraindicated; a chest x-ray will be    |        |            |       |                                              |
|needed.  Detainees not screened are housed separate from the general         |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with symptoms suggestive of TB are placed in a negative pressure   |        |            |       |                                              |
|isolation room and promptly evaluated for TB disease.  Detainees at          |        |            |       |                                              |
|facilities with no negative pressure isolation room, are referred to an      |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate off-site facility.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A transportation system will be available that ensures timely access to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|health care services that are only available outside the facility, including:|        |            |       |                                              |
|prioritization of medical need, urgency (ambulance versus standard), and     |        |            |       |                                              |
|transfer of medical information.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee who requires close, chronic, or convalescent medical supervision    |        |            |       |                                              |
|will be treated in accordance with a plan approved by licensed physician,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|physician assist, nurse practitioner, dentist, or mental health practitioner |        |            |       |                                              |
|that includes directions to health care and other involved personnel.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Female detainees have access to pregnancy testing and pregnancy  |        |            |       |                                              |
|management services that include routine high-risk prenatal care, addiction  |        |            |       |                                              |
|management, comprehensive counseling and assistance, nutrition, and          |        |            |       |                                              |
|postpartum follow-up.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Detainees with chronic conditions (such as hypertension and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|diabetes) will receive periodic care and treatment that includes monitoring  |        |            |       |                                              |
|of medications, laboratory testing, and chronic care clinics, and others will|        |            |       |                                              |
|be scheduled for periodic routine medical examinations, as determined by the |        |            |       |                                              |
|health authority                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator, or other designated staff will be notified in    |        |            |       |                                              |
|writing of any detainees whose special medical or mental health needs        |        |            |       |                                              |
|requiring special consideration in such matters as housing, transfer, or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|transportation.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees will have access to emergency and specified routine dental care    |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided under direction and supervision of a licensed dentist.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Detainees with mental health problems will be referred to a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|mental health provider as needed for detection, diagnosis, treatment, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|stabilization to prevent psychiatric deterioration while confined.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Crisis intervention services are available for detainees who experience acute|        |            |       |                                              |
|mental health episodes.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical and mental health interviews, examinations, and procedures will be   |        |            |       |                                              |
|conducted in settings that respect detainees’ privacy, and female detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|will be provided female escorts for health care by male health care          |        |            |       |                                              |
|providers.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Any detainee referred for mental health treatment receives a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|comprehensive evaluation by a licensed mental health provider within 14 days |        |            |       |                                              |
|of the referral.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Restraints for medical or mental health purposes may be          |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized only by a qualified medical or mental health provider, after      |        |            |       |                                              |
|reaching the conclusion that less restrictive measures are not successful.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures that specify:                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The conditions under which restraints may be applied;                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The types of restraints to be used;                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|How a detainee in restraints is to be monitored;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The length of time restraints are to be applied;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirements for documentation, including efforts to use less restrictive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|alternatives; and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|After-incident review.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The medical authority or mental health provider completes a Post-Restraints  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Observation Report form DIHS-867 or similar form.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Involuntary administration of psychotropic medications to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees complies with applicable laws and regulations and the authorizing  |        |            |       |                                              |
|physician or psychiatrist will:                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specify the duration of therapy;                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtain an order authorizing the administration of the drugh from a Federal   |        |            |       |                                              |
|District Court.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Document that less restrictive intervention options have been exercised      |        |            |       |                                              |
|without success;                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detail how the medication is to be administered;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Monitor the detainee for adverse reactions and side effects; and             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prepare treatment plans for less restrictive alternatives as soon as         |        |            |       |                                              |
|possible.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An initial dental screening exam should be performed within 14 days of the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s arrival.  If no on-site dentist is available, the initial dental  |        |            |       |                                              |
|screening may be performed by a physician, physician’s assistant, nurse      |        |            |       |                                              |
|practitioner or trained RN.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In each detention facility, the designated health authority and Facility     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrator determines the contents, number, location(s), use protocols,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and procedures for monthly inspections of first aid kits.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|An automatic external defibrillator should be available for use at the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee refuses treatment, ICE/DRO will be consulted in determining    |        |            |       |                                              |
|whether forced treatment will be administered, except in emergency           |        |            |       |                                              |
|circumstances, in which case, ICE/DRO will be notified as soon as possible.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, the Facility Administrator and health services             |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator will meet at least quarterly and include other facility and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical staff as appropriate.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Biohazardous waste will be managed and medical and dental        |        |            |       |                                              |
|equipment decontaminated in accordance with sound medical standards and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|compliance with applicable local, state, and federal regulations.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) The health authority will implement a system of internal review  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and quality assurance.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                                  |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding


Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)





Reviewer’s Signature / Date



|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee is able to maintain acceptable personal hygiene practices through the provision of adequate bathing     |
|facilities and the issuance and exchange of clean clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.                                           |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There is a policy and procedure for the regular issuance and exchange of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The supply of these items exceeds the minimum required for the number of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|All new detainees are issued clean, temperature-appropriate, presentable     |        |            |       |                                              |
|clothing during in-processing.  Detainees receive, at a minimum:             |        |            |       |                                              |
|One uniform shirt and one pair of uniform pants or one jumpsuit.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of socks.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of underwear (daily change).                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pair of facility-issued footwear.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional clothing is available for changing weather conditions and as is   |        |            |       |                                              |
|seasonally appropriate.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|New detainees are issued clean bedding, linens and towels, at a minimum:     |        |            |       |                                              |
|One mattress                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|One blanket                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Two sheets                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pillow                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|One pillowcase                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|One towel                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Additional blankets, based on local weather conditions.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides and replenishes personal hygiene items as needed.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Gender-specific items are available. ICE detainees are not charged for these |        |            |       |                                              |
|items.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Toilet facilities are:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Adequate in number and can be used without staff assistance 24 hours per day |        |            |       |                                              |
|when detainees are confined in their cells or sleeping areas.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires that toilets be provided at a    |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum ratio of one for every 12 male detainees or one for every 8 female   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.  For males, urinals may be substituted for up to one-half of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|toilets.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bathing facilities are:                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clean                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable with temperatures between 100 and 120 degrees Fahrenheit.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-08 requires one washbasin for every 12       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA Expected Practice 4-ALDF-4B-09 requires a minimum ratio of one shower for|        |            |       |                                              |
|every 12 detainees.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with disabilities are provided adequate facilities, support, and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|assistance needed for self-care and personal hygiene.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided clean clothing, linen and towels.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Socks and undergarments - daily.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outer garments - twice weekly.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sheets - weekly.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Towels - weekly.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Pillowcases - weekly.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Food service detainee volunteer workers are permitted to exchange outer      |        |            |       |                                              |
|garments daily.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Volunteer detainee workers are permitted to exchanges of outer garments more |        |            |       |                                              |
|frequently.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well being by training staff to prevent suicide by recognize potential signs and situations of risk |
|and to intervene with appropriate sensitivity, supervision, referral, and treatment.                                                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a written suicide prevention and intervention program       |        |            |       |                                              |
|approved and signed by the health authority and Facility Administrator and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|reviewed annually.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every new staff member receives suicide-prevention training.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide-prevention training occurs during the employee orientation and annual|        |            |       |                                              |
|training.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training prepares staff to:                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective methods for identifying the warning signs and symptoms of impending|        |            |       |                                              |
|suicidal behavior,                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors of suicidal behavior,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed detainees,                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Effective communication between correctional and health care personnel,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Necessary referral procedures,                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level procedures,                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have already attempted suicide, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting and written documentation procedures..                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|A health-care provider or specially trained officer screens all detainees for|        |            |       |                                              |
|suicide potential as part of the admission process.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Screening does not occur later than one working day after the detainee’s     |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrival.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Documentation exists that “specially trained officers”   have completed      |        |            |       |                                              |
|training in accordance with a syllabus approved by the medical authority.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures contain when and how to refer at-risk detainees to medical|        |            |       |                                              |
|staff and procedures are followed.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures include returning a previously suicidal detainee to the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|general population, upon written authorization of the clinical director or   |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate health care professional.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a designated isolation room for evaluation and treatment.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The designated isolation room does not contain any structures or smaller     |        |            |       |                                              |
|items that could be used in a suicide attempt.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff has approved the room for this purpose.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff observes and documents the status of a suicide-watch detainee at least |        |            |       |                                              |
|once every 15 minutes/constant observation.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                                           |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)



Reviewer’s Signature / Date






































|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each facility’s continuum of health care services addresses terminal illness, fatal injury, and advance directives and|
|provides specific guidance in the event of a detainee’s death.                                                                                             |
|Check this box if the facility does not accept ICE detainees who are severely or terminally ill.  Indicate NA in the appropriate box for this portion of   |
|the worksheet.  ALWAYS complete all references to detainee death and related notifications.                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees, who are chronically or terminally ill, are transferred to an      |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate off-site medical facility.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility or appropriate ICE office promptly notifies the next-of-kin of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee’s: medical condition.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee's location.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visiting hours and rules at that location.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are guidelines addressing State Advanced Directive Form for            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Implementing Living Wills and Advanced Directives.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|These guidelines include instructions for detainees who wish to have a living|        |            |       |                                              |
|will.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|These guidelines provide the detainee the opportunity to have a private      |        |            |       |                                              |
|attorney prepare the documents, at the detainee’s expense.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a policy addressing  "Do Not Resuscitate Orders”                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees with a "Do Not Resuscitate" order in the medical record receive    |        |            |       |                                              |
|maximal therapeutic efforts short of resuscitation.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility notifies ICE/DRO Medical Director and Headquarters’ Legal       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Counsel of the name and basic circumstances of any detainee with a "Do Not   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Resuscitate" order in the medical record.  In the case of IGSAs, this        |        |            |       |                                              |
|notification is made through the local ICE representative.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures to address the issues of organ donation  |        |            |       |                                              |
|by detainees.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has written procedures to notify ICE officials, deceased family |        |            |       |                                              |
|members and consulates, when a detainee dies while in service.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a policy and procedure to address the death of a detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|while in transport.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|At all ICE locations the detainee’s remains disposed of in accordance with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the provisions detailed in this standard.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|In the event that neither family nor consulate claims the remains, the Field |        |            |       |                                              |
|Office schedules an indigent’s burial, consistent with local procedures.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the detainee is a U.S. military veteran, the Department of Veterans       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Affairs notified.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|An original or certified copy of a detainee’s death certificate is placed in |        |            |       |                                              |
|the subject's A-File.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility follows established policy and procedures describing when to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|contact the local coroner regarding such issues as;                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Performance of an autopsy.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Person(s) to perform the autopsy.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtaining State approved death certificates.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Local transportation of the body.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|ICE staff follows established procedures to properly close the case of a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|deceased detainee.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date
Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section V ACTIVITIES

26    Correspondence and Other Mail
27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical  Emergencies
28    Marriage Requests
29    Recreation
30    Religious Practices
31    Telephone Access
32    Visitation
33    Voluntary Work Program

|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to correspond with their families, the community, legal representatives, government offices,   |
|and consular officials consistent with the safe and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has written policy and procedures concerning correspondence and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other mail. The rules for correspondence and other mail are posted in each   |        |            |       |                                              |
|housing or common area or provided to each detainee via a detainee handbook. |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides key information in English, Spanish, and other         |        |            |       |                                              |
|languages spoken by a significant number of detainees.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Incoming mail is distributed to detainees within 24 hours or 1 business day  |        |            |       |                                              |
|after it is received and inspected.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outgoing mail is delivered to the postal service within one business day of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|its entering the internal mail system (excluding weekends and holidays).     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintains a logbook-recording acceptance of priority, priority         |        |            |       |                                              |
|overnight, and certified mail delivered to the facility for a detainee.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff do not open and inspect incoming general correspondence and other mail |        |            |       |                                              |
|(including packages and publications) without the detainee present unless    |        |            |       |                                              |
|documented and authorized in writing by the Facility Administrator or        |        |            |       |                                              |
|equivalent for prevailing security reasons.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff does not read incoming general correspondence without the Facility     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrator’s prior approval.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff does not inspect incoming Special Correspondence for physical          |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband or to verify the “special” status of enclosures without the       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee present.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are prohibited from reading or copying incoming and outgoing Special   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence without the detainee present.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff are only authorized to inspect outgoing correspondence or other mail   |        |            |       |                                              |
|without the detainee present when there is reason to believe the item might  |        |            |       |                                              |
|present a threat to the facility's secure or orderly operation, endanger the |        |            |       |                                              |
|recipient or the public, or might facilitate criminal activity.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence to a politician or to the media is processed as Special       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Correspondence and is not read or copied.                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The official authorizing the rejection of incoming mail sends written notice |        |            |       |                                              |
|to the sender and the addressee.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The official authorizing censorship or rejection of outgoing mail provides   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee with signed written notice.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff maintains a written record of every item removed from detainee mail.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator or designee monitors staff handling of discovered |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband and its disposition. Records are accurate and up to date.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The procedure for safeguarding cash removed from a detainee protects the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee from loss of funds and theft.  The amount of cash credited to       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee accounts is accurate.  Discrepancies are documented and             |        |            |       |                                              |
|investigated.  Standard procedure includes issuing a receipt to the detainee.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Original identity documents (for example, passports, birth certificates) are |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately removed and forwarded to ICE staff for placement in the A-files. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff provides the detainee a copy of his or her identity document(s) upon   |        |            |       |                                              |
|request.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff disposes of prohibited items found in detainee mail in accordance with |        |            |       |                                              |
|the Detention Standard on “Contraband”.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every indigent detainee has the opportunity to mail, at government expense:  |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least five pieces of special correspondence per week; Three one ounce     |        |            |       |                                              |
|letters per week: Packages deemed necessary by ICE.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system for detainees to purchase stamps and for mailing   |        |            |       |                                              |
|all Special Correspondence and a minimum of 5 pieces of general              |        |            |       |                                              |
|correspondence per week.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides writing paper, envelopes, and pencils at no cost to ICE|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|SMU detainees have the same correspondence privileges as general population. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to outside publications.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                                 |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


 |PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard permits detainees to maintain ties with their families and the community by providing detainees emergency staff-escorted trips into|
|the community to visit critically ill members of the immediate family or to attend their funerals.                                                         |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Non-Medical Emergency Escorted Trips are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the      |
|detainee case.                                                                                                                                             |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director considers and approves, on a case-by-case basis,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|trips to an immediate family member's:                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Funeral                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Deathbed                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility recognizes as "immediate family member" a parent (including     |        |            |       |                                              |
|stepparent or foster parent), brother, sister, child, and spouse (including  |        |            |       |                                              |
|common-law spouse).                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The CDF/IGSA facility notifies ICE of all detainee requests for non-medical  |        |            |       |                                              |
|escorts.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s Deportation Officer reviews the file before forwarding a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee's request, with recommendation, to the approving official.  Each    |        |            |       |                                              |
|recommendation addresses the individual's suitability for travel, e.g., the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|kind of supervision required.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees who require overnight housing are placed in approved IGSA          |        |            |       |                                              |
|facilities.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each escort detail includes at least two officers.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee remains under constant, direct visual supervision of escorting  |        |            |       |                                              |
|staff.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escorting officers report unexpected situations to the originating facility  |        |            |       |                                              |
|as a matter of procedure and the ranking supervisor on duty has the authority|        |            |       |                                              |
|to issue instructions for completion of the trip.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escorting officers have the discretion to increase or decrease minimum       |        |            |       |                                              |
|restraints in accordance with written instruction, procedures and            |        |            |       |                                              |
|classification level of the detainee.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escort officers do not accept gifts/gratuities from a detainee, detainee's   |        |            |       |                                              |
|relative or friend for any reason.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Escort officers ensure that detainees:                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Conduct themselves in a manner that does not bring discredit to ICE/DRO.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not violate federal, state, or local laws.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not purchase, possess, use, consume, or administer narcotics, other drugs,|        |            |       |                                              |
|or intoxicants.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Do not arrange to visit family or friends unless approved before the trip.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Make no unauthorized phone calls.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Know they are subject to search, urinalysis, breathalyzer, or comparable test|        |            |       |                                              |
|upon return to the facility.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility routinely subjects a detainee returning from an escorted trip to|        |            |       |                                              |
|a search, urinalysis, breathalyzer, etc.?                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard procedure requires the immediate return to the facility of any      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee who violates trip rules.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director is the approving official for all non-medical      |        |            |       |                                              |
|escorted trips.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility procedures comply with the following ICE Standards:                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transportation (Land Transportation                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Restraints applied strictly in accordance with the       Use of Force        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



  |PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each marriage request from an ICE/DRO detainee receives a case-by-case review and based on internal guidelines for    |
|approval of such requests.                                                                                                                                 |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director or Facility Administrator considers detainee       |        |            |       |                                              |
|marriage requests on a case-by-case basis.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director reviews every marriage request rejected by a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Administrator or IGSA.  Rejections are documented.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|It is standard practice to require a written request for permission to marry.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The written request includes a signed statement or comparable documentation  |        |            |       |                                              |
|from the intended spouse, confirming marital intent.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator provides a written copy of his or her decision to |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee and his or her legal representative.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|When permission is denied, the Facility Administrator states the basis for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|his or her decision along with instructions on how the detainee can file an  |        |            |       |                                              |
|appeal.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator provides the detainee with a place and time to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|make wedding arrangements.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook explains the marriage request process.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs the Facility Administrator or highest ranking ICE official on-site is|        |            |       |                                              |
|the only officer authorized to approve a request to marry.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                                             |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date











|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee has access to recreational and exercise programs and activities, within the constraints of safety,      |
|security, and good order.                                                                                                                                  |
|If outdoor recreation is offered check this box.  Items 20-27 should then be marked “N/A”.                                                                 |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The Facility provides:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|An indoor recreation program.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|An outdoor recreation program.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A recreational specialist (for facilities with more than 350 detainees)      |        |            |       |                                              |
|tailors the program activities and offerings to the detainee population.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Regular maintenance keeps recreational facilities and equipment in good      |        |            |       |                                              |
|condition.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The recreational specialist or trained equivalent supervises detainee        |        |            |       |                                              |
|recreation workers.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The recreational specialist or trainee equivalent oversees recreation        |        |            |       |                                              |
|programs for Special Management Unit and special-needs detainees.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dayrooms offer sedentary activities, e.g., board games, cards, television.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outside activities are restricted to limited-contact sports.                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee has the opportunity to participate in daily recreation.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to recreation activities outside the housing units for |        |            |       |                                              |
|at least one hour daily..                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff checks all items for damage and condition when equipment is returned.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff conducts searches of recreation areas before and after use.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recreation areas are under constant staff supervision.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervising staff is equipped with radios.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides detainees in the SMU at least one hour of outdoor      |        |            |       |                                              |
|recreation time daily, five times per week.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary/administrative segregation receive a written       |        |            |       |                                              |
|explanation when a panel revokes his or her recreation privileges.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special programs or religious activities are available to detainees.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|All volunteers have completed an orientation program and are required to sign|        |            |       |                                              |
|a waiver of liability before entering a secure portion of the facility where |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees are present.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitors, relatives or friends of detainees are not allowed to serve as      |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|If yes, written procedures ensure timely review of all eligible detainees.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the facility has no outside recreation, are detainees considered for      |        |            |       |                                              |
|transfer after six months?                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Case officers make written transfer recommendations about every six-month    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee to the Facility Administrator.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator documents all detainee-transfer decisions, whether|        |            |       |                                              |
|yes or no.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s written decision for or against an offered transfer documented|        |            |       |                                              |
|in his or her A-file.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff notifies the detainee’s legal representative of his or her decision to |        |            |       |                                              |
|accept/decline a transfer.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|If no recreation is available, the ICE Field Office routinely review transfer|        |            |       |                                              |
|eligibility for all detainees after 60 days.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Does the A-file of every detainee held more than 60 days without access to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|recreation contains either a transfer-waiver signed by the detainee or the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility Administrator’s written determination of the detainee’s             |        |            |       |                                              |
|ineligibility for transfer.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s legal representative is notified of the detainee’s/Facility   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administrator’s decision.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



 |PART 5 – 30. RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                           |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees of different religious beliefs are provided reasonable and equitable opportunities to participate in the    |
|practices of their respective faiths, constrained only by concerns about safety, security, the orderly operation of the facility, or extraordinary costs   |
|associated with a specific practice.                                                                                                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to engage in religious services.  When available, these|        |            |       |                                              |
|services are provided in major languages spoken within the facility.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Space is available for detainees to participate in religious services.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility allows detainees to observe the major “holy days” of their      |        |            |       |                                              |
|religious faith.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|List any exceptions.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility accommodates recognized holy-day observances by:                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Providing special meals, consistent with dietary            restrictions.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Honoring fasting requirements.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facilitating religious services.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Allowing activity restrictions.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each detainee is allowed religious items in his/her immediate possession,    |        |            |       |                                              |
|refer to the Funds and Personal Property Standard.                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Volunteer’s credentials are checked and verified before allowing             |        |            |       |                                              |
|participation in detainee programs.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Members of faiths not represented by clergy may request to present their own |        |            |       |                                              |
|services within security allowances.                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in the Special Management Unit may participate in religious        |        |            |       |                                              |
|practices unless otherwise documented for the safety and security of the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



 |PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees may maintain ties with their families and others in the community by providing them reasonable and equitable|
|access to telephone services.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to access to telephones during established facility    |        |            |       |                                              |
|waking hours, including access to TTY devices.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon admittance, detainees are made aware of the facility's telephone access |        |            |       |                                              |
|policy.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Notification explaining the facilities telephone policy is in the Detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Handbook.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Access rules, including updated telephone and consulate number, are posted in|        |            |       |                                              |
|housing units.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility makes a reasonable effort to provide key information to         |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees in languages spoken by any significant portion of the facility's   |        |            |       |                                              |
|population.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are provided at a minimum ratio of one telephone per 25 detainees |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility population.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are inspected daily by facility staff to ensure that they are in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|good working order.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Telephones are located a reasonable distance from televisions.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administration promptly reports out-of-order telephones to the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility’s telephone service provider.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility administration monitors repair progress and takes appropriate   |        |            |       |                                              |
|measures to ensure that the required repairs are begun and completed timely. |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are afforded a reasonable degree of privacy for legal phone calls. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A procedure exists to assist a detainee who is having trouble placing a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|confidential call.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility provides the detainees with the ability to make non-collect     |        |            |       |                                              |
|(special access) calls.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special Access calls are at no charge to the detainees.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|In facilities unable to fully meet this requirement initially because of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|limitations of its telephone service, ICE makes alternate arrangements to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|provide required access within 24 hours of a request by a detainee.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|No restrictions are placed on detainees attempting to contact attorneys and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|legal service providers who are on the approved “Free Legal Services List”.  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special arrangements are made to allow detainees to speak by telephone with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|an immediate family member detained in another Facility.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|All telephone restrictions are documented.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility has a system for taking and delivering emergency detainee       |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephone messages.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Phone call messages are  given to detainees as soon as possible.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are allowed to return emergency phone calls as soon as possible.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are allowed phone calls relating to the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee's immigration case or other legal matters, including consultation   |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are allowed phone calls to             |        |            |       |                                              |
|consular/embassy officials.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in disciplinary segregation are allowed phone calls for family     |        |            |       |                                              |
|emergencies.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in administrative segregation and protective custody are afforded  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the same telephone privileges as those in general population.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|When detainee phone calls are monitored, notification is posted by detainee  |        |            |       |                                              |
|telephones, including a recorded message on the phone system, that phone     |        |            |       |                                              |
|calls made by the detainees may be monitored. Special Access calls are not   |        |            |       |                                              |
|monitored.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The OIG phone number for reporting abuse is programmed into the detainee     |        |            |       |                                              |
|phone system.  The reviewer must verify that the number is operable.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Field Office Director has assigned ICE staff to check and report on the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|serviceability of facility phones.  This is documented on a weekly basis     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date











 |PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to maintain ties through visitation with their families, the community, legal representatives, |
|and consular officials, within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.                                                                        |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|There is a written visitation procedure, schedule, and hours for general     |        |            |       |                                              |
|visitation.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visitation hours are tailored to the detainee population and the demand  |        |            |       |                                              |
|for visitation.  The minimum duration for a visit is 30 minutes.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The visitation schedule and rules are available to the public.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The hours for all categories of visitation are posted in the visitation      |        |            |       |                                              |
|waiting area.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|A written copy of the rules regulating visitation and the hours of visitation|        |            |       |                                              |
|is available to visitors in English, Spanish, and other major languages      |        |            |       |                                              |
|spoken in the facility.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|A general visitation log is maintained.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are permitted to retain authorized personal property items         |        |            |       |                                              |
|specified in the standard.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|A visitor dress code is available to the public.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Visitors are searched and identified according to standard requirements.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The requirement on visitation by minors is complied with.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|At facilities where there is no provision for visits by minors, ICE arranges |        |            |       |                                              |
|for visits by children and stepchildren, on request, within the first 30     |        |            |       |                                              |
|days.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|After that time, on request, ICE considers a transfer, when possible, to a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility that will allow minor visitation.  At a minimum, monthly visits are |        |            |       |                                              |
|allowed.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Anytime a visit is denied, to either a general population detainee or SMU    |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, the denial is documented.                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in special housing are afforded visitation.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Legal visitation is available seven (7) days a week, including holidays.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|On regular business days legal visitation hours provide for a minimum of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|eight (8) hours per day and a minimum of four hours per day on weekends and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|holidays.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|On regular business days, detainees are given the option of continuing a     |        |            |       |                                              |
|meeting with a legal representative through a scheduled meal.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Private consultation rooms are available for attorney meetings.  There is a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|mechanism for the detainee and his/her representative to exchange documents. |        |            |       |                                              |
|There are written procedures governing detainee searches.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Legal representatives and assistants are subject to a non-intrusive search – |        |            |       |                                              |
|such as a pat-down search of the person or a search of the person’s          |        |            |       |                                              |
|belongings - at any time for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of     |        |            |       |                                              |
|contraband.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Per the Standard, prior to each visit, legal service providers and assistants|        |            |       |                                              |
|are identified.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The current list of pro bono legal organizations is posted in the detainee   |        |            |       |                                              |
|housing areas and other appropriate areas.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|SPCs and CDFs shall submit written requests for tours from domestic or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|international organizations and associated with detention issues to the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|appropriate Field Office Director for approval.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Provisions for NGO visitation as stated in the Detention Standards are       |        |            |       |                                              |
|complied with.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Law enforcement officials, requesting to visit with a detainee, are referred |        |            |       |                                              |
|to the ICE Facility Administrator for approval.                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Former detainees or aliens in proceedings, requesting to visit with a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee, are referred to the Facility Administrator or ICE Field Office.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                                    |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard provides detainees opportunities to work and earn money while confined, subject to the number of work opportunities available and  |
|within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.  While not legally required to do so, ICE/DRO affords working detainees basic Occupational     |
|Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protections.                                                                                                       |
|Check here if ICE detainees are not authorized to work at the IGSA facility.  Mark NA on Form G-324A, page 3 and move to next section.                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a voluntary work program.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee housekeeping meets acceptable levels of neatness, cleanliness and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|sanitation standards.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|At IGSAs detainees are never allowed to work outside the secure perimeter.   |        |            |       |                                              |
|SPCs and CDFs detainees classified as level 1 have the opportunity to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|participate in special details outside the secure perimeter under direct     |        |            |       |                                              |
|supervision.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures govern selection of detainees for the Voluntary Work      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The same procedures apply for replacement workers as for “new” workers.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff follows written procedures.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Where possible, physically and mentally challenged detainees participate in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the program.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility complies with work-hour requirements for detainees, not         |        |            |       |                                              |
|exceeding:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Eight hours a day.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Forty hours a week.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee volunteers ordinarily work according to a fixed schedule.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee is removed from a work detail, staff places the written        |        |            |       |                                              |
|justification for the action in the detainee’s detention file.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff, in accordance with written procedure, ensures that detainee volunteers|        |            |       |                                              |
|understand their responsibilities as workers before they join the work       |        |            |       |                                              |
|program.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The voluntary work program meets:                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|OSHA standards                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|NFPA standards                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|ACA standards                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical staff screens and formally certifies detainee food service           |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers;                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Before the assignment begins                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|As a matter of written procedure                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees receive safety equipment/ training sufficient for the assignment   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Proper procedure is followed when an ICE detainee is injured on the job.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                                        |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding
 Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
      




 Reviewer’s Signature / Date


Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section VI JUSTICE

34    Detainee Handbook
35    Grievance System
36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard requires that, upon admission, every detainee be provided comprehensive written orientation materials that describe such matters as|
|the facility’s rules and sanctions, disciplinary system, mail and visiting procedures, grievance system, services, programs, and medical care, in English, |
|Spanish, and other languages and that detainees acknowledge receipt of those materials.                                                                    |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility has a detainee handbook.  Each detainee receives a copy of the  |        |            |       |                                              |
|local handbook and the ICE National Detainee Handbook.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook is written in English and translated into Spanish, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|other languages spoken by significant numbers of detainees in that facility. |        |            |       |                                              |
|A procedure for requesting interpretive services for essential communication |        |            |       |                                              |
|has been developed.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation materials are read to detainees who cannot read, or they are     |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided the material via audio or video recordings.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook supplements the facility orientation video where one is         |        |            |       |                                              |
|provided.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook is revised as necessary and there are procedures in place for   |        |            |       |                                              |
|immediately communicating any revisions to staff and detainees.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is an annual review of the handbook by a designated committee or staff |        |            |       |                                              |
|member.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook address the following issues:                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal Items permitted to be retained by the detainee.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Initial issue of clothes, bedding and personal hygiene items.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to access care.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee handbook states in clear language basic detainee                |        |            |       |                                              |
|responsibilities.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook clearly outlines the methods for classification of detainees,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|explains each level, and explains the classification appeals process.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook states when a medical examination will be conducted.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility, housing units, dayrooms, In-dorm        |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities and special management units.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes: official count times and count procedures, meal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|times, feeding procedures, procedures for medical or religious diets, smoking|        |            |       |                                              |
|policy, clothing exchange schedules and if authorized, clothes washing and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|drying procedures and expected personal hygiene practices.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes times and procedures for obtaining disposable razors  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and explains that detainees attending court will be afforded the opportunity |        |            |       |                                              |
|to shave first.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes barber hours and hair cutting restrictions.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes; the telephone policy, debit card procedures, direct  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and frees calls; locations of telephones; policy when telephone demand is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|high; and policy and procedures for emergency phone calls.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook addresses religious programming.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook states times and procedures for commissary or vending machine   |        |            |       |                                              |
|usage. (where available)                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee voluntary work program.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the library location and hours of operation and law   |        |            |       |                                              |
|library procedures and schedules.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes: attorney and regular visitation hours, policies, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures, location of the list of pro bono legal organizations; group legal|        |            |       |                                              |
|rights presentations schedule and sign up procedures.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook/supplement provides local ICE contact information.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility contraband policy.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility visiting hours and schedule and visiting |        |            |       |                                              |
|rules and regulations.                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the correspondence policy and procedures.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee disciplinary policy and procedures,      |        |            |       |                                              |
|including:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Prohibited acts and severity scale sanctions.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Time limits in the Disciplinary Process.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Summary of Disciplinary Process.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The grievance section of the handbook explains all steps in the grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|process – Including:                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Informal (if used) and formal grievance    procedures;                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The appeals process;                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In CDFs procedures for filing an appeal of a grievance with ICE.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff/detainee availability to help during the grievance process.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guarantee against staff retaliation for filing/pursuing a grievance.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to file a complaint about officer misconduct with the Department of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Homeland Security.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the medical sick call procedures for general          |        |            |       |                                              |
|population and segregation.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the facility recreation policy including:             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outdoor recreation hours.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Indoor recreation hours.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|In dorm leisure activities.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rules for television viewing.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook describes the detainee dress code for daily living; and work    |        |            |       |                                              |
|assignments and the meaning of color-coded uniforms.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The handbook specifies the rights and responsibilities of all detainees.     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are required to sign for the handbook to ensure accountability.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation materials are provided to illiterate detainees either orally or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|via audio/video tapes in a language they can understand.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                                            |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



 |PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights and ensures they are treated fairly by providing a procedure by which they may file formal grievances   |
|and receive timely responses.                                                                                                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|Detainees are informed about the facility’s informal and formal grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|system.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The admissions process includes providing each new arrival with a copy of the|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee handbook (or equivalent).                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The grievance section of the handbook explains all steps in the grievance    |        |            |       |                                              |
|process – Including:                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Informal and formal grievance    procedures;                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The appeals process and step-by-step procedures;                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff/detainee availability to help during the grievance process             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Guarantee against staff retaliation for filing/pursuing a grievance.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to file a complaint about officer misconduct with the Department of      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Justice.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|How to file a emergency grievance.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Written procedures provide for the informal resolution of oral grievances    |        |            |       |                                              |
|(Not mandatory). If yes, the detainee has up to five days within which to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|make his or her concern known to a member of the staff.                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to the grievance committee (or equivalent in IGSA),    |        |            |       |                                              |
|using formal procedures.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees may seek help from other detainees or facility staff when preparing|        |            |       |                                              |
|a grievance.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Illiterate, disabled, or non-English-speaking detainees receive special      |        |            |       |                                              |
|assistance when necessary.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility has written procedures for identifying and handling a time-sensitive|        |            |       |                                              |
|emergency grievance.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Every member of the staff knows how to identify emergency grievances,        |        |            |       |                                              |
|including the procedures for expediting them.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff shall not harass, discipline, punish or otherwise retaliate against a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee who files a complaint or grievance.                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures include maintaining a Detainee Grievance Log.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|If not, an alternative acceptable record keeping system is maintained.       |        |            |       |                                              |
|"Nuisance complains" are identified in the records.                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|For quality control purposes, staff documents nuisance complaints received   |        |            |       |                                              |
|but not filed.                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|If a detainee who establishes a pattern of filing nuisance complaints or     |        |            |       |                                              |
|otherwise abusing the grievance system, the Facility Administrator may       |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorize staff to refuse to process subsequent complaints.  This authority  |        |            |       |                                              |
|may not be delegated, even to an acting Facility Administrator.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff is required to forward any grievance that includes officer misconduct  |        |            |       |                                              |
|to a higher official or, in a CDF/IGSA facility, to ICE.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Informal resolution of a written grievance is documented in the detainee’s   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention File.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff comply with the requirement to report allegations of officer misconduct|        |            |       |                                              |
|to a supervisor or higher-level official in his or her chain of command,     |        |            |       |                                              |
|and/or to ICE/DRO Office of Professional Responsibility and/or the DHS       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Inspector General.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs and CDFs, when a Detainee does not accept the grievance committee's  |        |            |       |                                              |
|decision, he/she files an appeal with the ICE Facility Administrator.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|In all facilities written procedures cover detainee appeals and are included |        |            |       |                                              |
|in the detainee handbook                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|In SPCs/CDFs, the detainee has a reasonable timeframe after the incident or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|informal-grievance outcome to file a formal grievance.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date


|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to courts, counsel, and legal materials.                                       |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility provides a designated law library for detainee use.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The law library contains all materials listed in the “Access to Legal        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Materials” Standard, Attachment A.  The listing of materials is posted in the|        |            |       |                                              |
|law library.                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|In lieu of/or in addition to the physical law library, ICE detainees have    |        |            |       |                                              |
|access to the Lexus Nexus electronic law library.                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|If the Lexis/Nexis CD-ROM service alternative is used for the publications in|        |            |       |                                              |
|Attachment A, the facility provides detainees sufficient:                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Operable computers and printers, in sufficient numbers in order to provide   |        |            |       |                                              |
|access                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Photocopiers, and                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supplies for both.                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The library contains a sufficient number of chairs, is well lit and is       |        |            |       |                                              |
|reasonably isolated from noisy areas.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|The law library is adequately equipped with typewriters, computers or both   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and has sufficient supplies for daily use by the detainees.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are provided with the means to save legal work in a private        |        |            |       |                                              |
|electronic format for future use.                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility subscribes to updating services where applicable and legal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials requiring updates are current.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Outside persons and organizations are permitted to submit published legal    |        |            |       |                                              |
|material for inclusion in the legal library.  Outside published material is  |        |            |       |                                              |
|forwarded and reviewed by the ICE prior to inclusion.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|There is a designated ICE or facility employee who inspects, updates, and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|maintain/replace legal material and equipment on a routine basis.  The       |        |            |       |                                              |
|designee properly disposes outdated supplements and replaces damaged or      |        |            |       |                                              |
|missing material promptly.                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are offered a minimum 5 hours per week in the law library.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are not required to forego recreation time in lieu of library      |        |            |       |                                              |
|usage.  Detainees facing a court deadline are given priority use of the law  |        |            |       |                                              |
|library.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees may request material not currently in the law library.  Each       |        |            |       |                                              |
|request is reviewed and where appropriate an acquisition request is initiate |        |            |       |                                              |
|and timely pursued.  Request for copies of court decisions are accommodated  |        |            |       |                                              |
|within 3 – 5 business days.                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility permits detainees to assist other detainees, voluntarily and    |        |            |       |                                              |
|free of charge, in researching and preparing legal documents, consistent with|        |            |       |                                              |
|security.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff ensures that illiterate or non-English-speaking detainees without legal|        |            |       |                                              |
|representation receive more than access to English-language law books after  |        |            |       |                                              |
|indicating their need for help.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees may retain a reasonable amount of personal legal material in the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|general population and in the special management unit.  Stored legal         |        |            |       |                                              |
|materials are accessible within 24 hours of a written request.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees housed in Administrative Segregation and Disciplinary Segregation  |        |            |       |                                              |
|units have the same law library access as the general population, barring    |        |            |       |                                              |
|security concerns.  Detainees denied access to legal materials are documented|        |            |       |                                              |
|and reviewed routinely for lifting of sanctions.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|All denials of access to the law library fully documented.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility staff informs ICE Management when a detainee or group of detainees  |        |            |       |                                              |
|is denied access to the law library or law materials.                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees who seek judicial relief on any matter are not subjected to        |        |            |       |                                              |
|reprisals, retaliation, or penalties.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Indigent detainees are provided with free envelopes and stamps to mail       |        |            |       |                                              |
|related to legal matters.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to information presented by authorized persons and organizations for the       |
|purpose of informing them of U.S. immigration law and procedures.                                                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
| Check here if No Group Presentations were conducted within the past 12 months.  Mark Standard as Acceptable overall and continue on with next portion of  |
|worksheet.                                                                                                                                                 |
|The Field Office is responsive to requests by attorneys and accredited       |        |            |       |                                              |
|representatives for group presentations.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Upon receipt of concurrence by the Field Office Director, the facility or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|authorized ICE/DRO Field Office ensures proper notification to attorneys or  |        |            |       |                                              |
|accredited representatives in a timely manner.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility follows policy and procedure when rejecting or requesting       |        |            |       |                                              |
|modifications to objectionable material provided or presented by the attorney|        |            |       |                                              |
|or accredited representative.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Posters announcing presentations appear in common areas at least 48 hours in |        |            |       |                                              |
|advance and sign-up sheets are available and accessible.                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees have access to group presentations on immigration law, procedures  |        |            |       |                                              |
|and detainee options. Documentation is submitted and maintained when any     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is denied permission to attend a presentation and the reason(s) for |        |            |       |                                              |
|the denial.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the number of detainees allowed to attend a presentation is limited, the|        |            |       |                                              |
|facility allows a sufficient number of presentations so that all detainees   |        |            |       |                                              |
|signed up may attend.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees in segregation, unable to attend for security reasons may request  |        |            |       |                                              |
|separate sessions with presenters.  Such requests are documented.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Interpreters are admitted when necessary to assist attorneys and other legal |        |            |       |                                              |
|representatives.                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Presenters are afforded a minimum of one hour to make the presentation and   |        |            |       |                                              |
|additional time to conduct a question-and-answer session.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff permits presenters to distribute ICE/DRO-approved materials.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility permits presenters to meet with small groups of detainees to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|discuss their cases after the group presentation.  ICE/DRO or authorized     |        |            |       |                                              |
|detention staff are present but do not monitor conversations with legal      |        |            |       |                                              |
|providers.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Group presenters who have had their privileges suspended are notified in     |        |            |       |                                              |
|writing by the Field Office Director or designee, and the reasons for        |        |            |       |                                              |
|suspension are documented.  The Headquarters Office for Detention and        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Removal, Field Operations and Detention management Division is notified when |        |            |       |                                              |
|a group or individual is suspended from making presentations.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility plays ICE/DRO-approved videotaped presentations on legal rights,|        |            |       |                                              |
|at regular opportunities at the request of outside organizations.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|A copy of the Group Legal Rights Presentation policy, including attachments, |        |            |       |                                              |
|is available to detainees upon request                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility maintaine equipment for viewing approved electronically         |        |            |       |                                              |
|formatted presentations.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                              |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

 Performance-Based National Detention Standards



Section VII ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT

38    Detention Files
39    News Media Interviews and Tours
40    Staff Training
41    Transfer of Detainees


|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard contributes to efficient and responsible facility management by maintaining for each detainee booked into a facility for more than |
|24 hours a file of all significant information about that person.                                                                                          |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|A Detention File is created for every new arrival whose stay will exceed 24  |        |            |       |                                              |
|hours.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee Detention File contains either originals or copies of           |        |            |       |                                              |
|documentation and forms generated during the admissions process.             |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee’s Detention File also contains documents generated during the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s custody.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Special requests                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Any G-589s and/or I-77s or IGSA equivalent, closed-out during the detainee’s |        |            |       |                                              |
|stay                                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Disciplinary forms/Segregation forms                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Grievances, complaints, and the disposition(s) of same                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Detention Files are located and maintained in a secured area.  If not the|        |            |       |                                              |
|cabinets are lockable and distribution of the keys is limited to supervisors.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The Detention File remains active during the detainee’s stay.  When the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee is released from the facility, staff adds copies of completed       |        |            |       |                                              |
|release documents, the original closed-out receipts for property and         |        |            |       |                                              |
|valuables, the original I-385 or equivalent and other documentation.         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The officer closing the Detention File makes a notation that the file is     |        |            |       |                                              |
|complete and ready to be archived.                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff makes copies and sends documents from the file when appropriately      |        |            |       |                                              |
|requested by supervisory personnel at the receiving facility or office.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Appropriate staff has access to the Detention Files and other departmental   |        |            |       |                                              |
|requests are accommodated by making a request for the file.  Each file is    |        |            |       |                                              |
|properly logged out and in by a representative of the responsible department.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronic record-keeping systems and data are protected from unauthorized   |        |            |       |                                              |
|access.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Unless release of information is required by statute or regulation, a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee must sign a release-of-information consent form prior to the release|        |            |       |                                              |
|of any information, and a copy of the form is maintained in the detainee’s   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detention File.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronic data on individual detainees is subject to the same Privacy Act   |        |            |       |                                              |
|regulations as the contents of traditional paper Detention Files and A-files.|        |            |       |                                              |
|The Facility Administrator or staff designate ensures that necessary         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|equipment and supplies, including copier and copier supplies are available;  |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|all equipment is maintained in good working order and that equipment has the |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|capacity to handle the volume of work.                                       |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|The Detention Operations Supervisor or equivalent can direct certain         |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|documents be added to a detainee’s detention File.                           |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Archived files are purged after six years by shredding or burning.           |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Field Offices maintains detention files on detainees housed in IGSA          |        |        |            |       |                                     |
|Facilities as needed.  These files are maintained for a minimum of 18 months.|        |        |            |       |                                     |
|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard ensures that the public and the media are informed of events within the facility’s areas of responsibility through interviews and  |
|tours.                                                                                                                                                     |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |s       |Standards   |       |                                              |
|In the past year, have there been any interviews by reporters, other news    |        |            |       |                                              |
|media representatives, academics and others not covered by the Detention     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard on Visitation?                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|If so, were they permitted only by special arrangement and with approval of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the respective ICE/DRO Field Office Director?                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|If there have been any personal interviews, was the News Interview           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Authorization form (or equivalent) filed in the detainee’s A-file with a copy|        |            |       |                                              |
|in the facility’s Detention File?                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Was any interview with a detainee who was the center of a controversy, or    |        |            |       |                                              |
|special interest, or high profile, did the Field Office Director consult with|        |            |       |                                              |
|Headquarters before deciding to allow the interview?                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|In the past year, have any media representatives photographed or recorded any|        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee in any way that would individually identify him or her?             |        |            |       |                                              |
|If so, did the media representatives obtain a signed release from the        |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee that is retained in the detainee’s A-file?                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|In the past year, have there been any press pools?  If so, were the          |        |            |       |                                              |
|procedures in the Detention Standard followed?                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|A press pool may be established when the Field Office Director and facility  |        |            |       |                                              |
|administrator determine that the volume of interview requests warrants such  |        |            |       |                                              |
|action.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Did the facility administrator notify all media representatives with pending |        |            |       |                                              |
|or requested, tours, or visits that, effective immediately and until further |        |            |       |                                              |
|notice, all media representatives must comply with the press pool guidelines |        |            |       |                                              |
|established by the Field Office Director?                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Was all material generated from such a press pool made available to all news |        |            |       |                                              |
|media, without right of first publication or broadcast?                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                               |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     

Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive initial and  |
|ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                                                |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|The facility conducts appropriate orientation, initial training, and annual  |        |            |       |                                              |
|training for all staff, contractors, and volunteers.                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|The amount and content of training is consistent with the duties and function|        |            |       |                                              |
|of each individual and the degree of direct supervision that individual      |        |            |       |                                              |
|receives.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|At least one qualified individual with specialized training for the position |        |            |       |                                              |
|coordinates and oversees the staff development and training program.  At a   |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum, full-time training personnel complete a 40-hour                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|training-for-trainers course.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Training is governed and guided by a training plan that is reviewed and      |        |            |       |                                              |
|approved annually by the facility administrator.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|An accurate and complete record is maintained of all formal training         |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities in:                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Individual training folders,                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Other training records systems, and/or                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Electronic systems.                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Each new employee, contractor, and volunteer is provided an orientation prior|        |            |       |                                              |
|to assuming duties.  While tailored specifically for staff, contractors, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|volunteers, the orientation programs include, at a minimum:                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Working conditions                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policy manual                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Employees' rights and responsibilities                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug-free Workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health-related emergencies                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Signs of Suicide risk and precautions                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide prevention and intervention                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hunger strikes                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use of Force                                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Keys and Locks                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Overview of the criminal justice system                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tour of the facility                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility goals and objectives                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility organization                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff rules and regulations                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct awareness                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policies                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program overview                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation and training on detainee handbook and detainee rights.           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirement of special-needs detainees.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Clerical/support employees who have minimal detainee contact receive a       |        |            |       |                                              |
|minimum of:                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Working conditions                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policy manual                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Employees' rights and responsibilities                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Overview of the criminal justice system                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Tour of the facility                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility goals and objectives                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility organization                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff rules and regulations                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct awareness                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personnel policies                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Program overview                                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key and Lock Control.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide risk and prevention.                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Professional and support employees (including contractors) who have regular  |        |            |       |                                              |
|or daily detainee contact will receive training on the following subjects, at|        |            |       |                                              |
|a minimum:                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security procedures and regulations                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of Ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health-related emergencies                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug-free workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervision of detainees                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Signs of suicide risk and hunger strike                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide precautions                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use-of-force regulations and tactics                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report writing                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee rules and regulations                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key control                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and responsibilities of detainees                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safety procedures                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency plan and procedures                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Interpersonal relations                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Social/cultural lifestyles of the detainee population                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication skills                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)/First aid                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Counseling techniques                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual harassment/sexual misconduct awareness.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Full-time health care employees receive at least 40 hours of formal          |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation before undertaking their assignments.  At a minimum, the         |        |            |       |                                              |
|orientation program includes:                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|The purpose, goals, policies and procedures for the facility and parent      |        |            |       |                                              |
|agency security and contraband regulations                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key control; appropriate conduct with detainees                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responsibilities and rights of employees                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Standard precautions                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Occupational exposure                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Personal protective equipment                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Bio-hazardous waste disposal                                                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|Overview of the detention operations.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical grievance procedures and protocol.                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Requirment for special needs detainees.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of Ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug free workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Hostage situations and staff conduct if taken hostage.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security personnel (including contractors) will receive training on the      |        |            |       |                                              |
|following subjects, at a minimum:                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Security procedures and regulations                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Supervision of detainees                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Searches of detainees, housing units, and work areas                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Signs of suicide risk, precaution, prevention and intervention.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Code of Ethics                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Health-related emergencies                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Drug-free workplace                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Suicide precautions                                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Self-defense techniques                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Use-of-force regulations and tactics                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Report writing                                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee rules and regulations                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Key control                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Rights and responsibilities of detainees                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Safety procedures                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Emergency plans and procedures                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Interpersonal relations                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Social/cultural lifestyles of the detainee population                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity/understanding staff & detainees                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication skills                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)/first aid                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Counseling techniques                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Sexual abuse/assault awareness                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|National Detention Standards.                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Situation Response Teams (SRTs) receive:                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Specialized training before undertaking their assignments.                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility management and supervisory staff receive:                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Management and Supervisory training                                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Personnel authorized to use firearms receive training that covers|        |            |       |                                              |
|their use, safety, and care and constraints on their use -- before being     |        |            |       |                                              |
|assigned to a post involving their possible use.                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) All personnel authorized to use firearms demonstrate competency  |        |            |       |                                              |
|in their use at least annually.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) Personnel authorized to use chemical agents receive training in  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the use of chemical agents and in the treatment of individuals exposed to a  |        |            |       |                                              |
|chemical agent before being assigned to a post involving their possible use. |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff receive orientation and annual training on the facility’s drug-free|        |            |       |                                              |
|workplace program.  Typical contents are:                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff, contractors, and volunteers prohibited from:                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using illegal drugs.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Possessing illegal drugs except in the authorized performance of official    |        |            |       |                                              |
|duties.                                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Procedures to be used to ensure compliance.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Opportunities available for treatment and/or counseling for drug abuse.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Penalties for violation of the policy.                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|New staff are required to acknowledge in writing that they have reviewed and |        |            |       |                                              |
|understand the facility’s drug-free workplace program, and a copy of the     |        |            |       |                                              |
|signed acknowledgement is maintained in that person’s personnel file.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained during orientation and annually thereafter, regarding  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility’s code of ethics.                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Typical contents are:                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Staff, contractors, and volunteers prohibited from:                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|Using their official positions to secure privileges for themselves or others.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Engaging in activities that constitute a conflict of interest.               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Accepting any gift or gratuity from, or engaging in personal business        |        |            |       |                                              |
|transactions with a detainee or an detainee's immediate family.              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Acceptable behavior in the areas of campaigning, lobbying or political       |        |            |       |                                              |
|activities.                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|New staff are required to acknowledge in writing that they have reviewed and |        |            |       |                                              |
|understand facility work rules, ethics, regulations, conditions of           |        |            |       |                                              |
|employment, and related documents, and a copy of the signed acknowledgement  |        |            |       |                                              |
|is maintained in that person’s personnel file.                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least|        |            |       |                                              |
|annually to respond to health-related emergencies within four minutes.  The  |        |            |       |                                              |
|training is provided by a responsible medical authority in cooperation with  |        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility administrator and includes:                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing of signs of potential health emergencies and the required        |        |            |       |                                              |
|responses.                                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Administering first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Obtaining emergency medical assistance through the facility plan and its     |        |            |       |                                              |
|required procedures.                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing signs and symptoms of mental illness, suicide risk, retardation, |        |            |       |                                              |
|and chemical dependency.                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|The facility’s established plan and procedures for providing emergency       |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical care including, when required, the safe and secure transfer of       |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainees for appropriate hospital or other medical services, including by   |        |            |       |                                              |
|ambulance when indicated.                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least annually on|        |            |       |                                              |
|the facility’s Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention Program, |        |            |       |                                              |
|to include:                                                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Understanding that sexual abuse or assault is never an acceptable consequence|        |            |       |                                              |
|of detention.                                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing housing or other situations where sexual abuse or assault may    |        |            |       |                                              |
|occur.                                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Recognizing the physical, behavioral, and emotional signs of sexual abuse or |        |            |       |                                              |
|assault and ways to prevent such occurrences.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Knowing how to report knowledge or suspicion of sexual abuse or assault and  |        |            |       |                                              |
|make intervention referrals in the facility’s program.                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|(MANDATORY) All staff in frequent contact with detainees are trained at least|        |            |       |                                              |
|annually on the facility’s Suicide Prevention and Intervention Program, to   |        |            |       |                                              |
|include:                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Identifying the warning signs and symptoms of impending suicidal behavior,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Demographic, cultural, and precipitating factors of suicidal behavior,       |        |            |       |                                              |
|Responding to suicidal and depressed detainees,                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication between correctional and health care personnel,                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Referral procedures,                                                         |        |            |       |                                              |
|Housing observation and suicide-watch level procedures, and                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Follow-up monitoring of detainees who have attempted suicide.                |        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained during orientation and annually to recognize the signs |        |            |       |                                              |
|of a hunger strike and on the procedures for referral for medical assessment.|        |            |       |                                              |
|All staff are trained in proper procedures for the care and handling of keys.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Orientation training shall be accomplished before staff are issued keys, and |        |            |       |                                              |
|key control shall be among the topics covered in annual training.            |        |            |       |                                              |
|Ordinarily, such training is done by the Security Officer or Key Control     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Officer.                                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Through ongoing (at least annual) training, all detention facility staff are |        |            |       |                                              |
|made aware of their responsibilities to control situations involving         |        |            |       |                                              |
|aggressive detainees.  At a minimum, training shall include:                 |        |            |       |                                              |
|The requirements of this Detention Standard                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The use of force continuum                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communication techniques                                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Cultural diversity                                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Dealing with the mentally ill                                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|Confrontation-avoidance techniques                                           |        |            |       |                                              |
|Approved methods of self-defense                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Force cell-move techniques                                                   |        |            |       |                                              |
|Communicable diseases, particularly precautions to be taken for use of force |        |            |       |                                              |
|Application of restraints (progressive and hard)                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|Reporting procedures.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Employees are encouraged to continue their education and professional        |        |            |       |                                              |
|development through incentives such as salary enhancement, reimbursement of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|costs, and administrative leave.                                             |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                                |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date

|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |
|This Detention Standard ensures that transfers of detainees from one facility to another are professionally and responsibly managed in regard to           |
|notifications, detainee records, safety and security, and protection of detainee funds and personal property.                                              |
|Components                                                                   |Meets   |Does Not    |N/A    |Remarks                                       |
|                                                                             |Standard|Meet        |       |                                              |
|                                                                             |        |Standard    |       |                                              |
|When a detainee is represented by legal counsel or a legal representative,   |        |            |       |                                              |
|and a G-28 has been filed, the representative of record is notified by the   |        |            |       |                                              |
|detainee’s Deportation Officer within 24 hours of transfer.                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|The notification is recorded in the detainee’s file                          |        |            |       |                                              |
|When the A-File is not available, notification is noted within ENFORCE.      |        |            |       |                                              |
|Notification includes the reason for the transfer and the location of the new|        |            |       |                                              |
|facility,                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The deportation officer is allowed discretion regarding the timing of the    |        |            |       |                                              |
|notification when extenuating circumstances are involved.                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The attorney and detainee are notified that it is their responsibility to    |        |            |       |                                              |
|notify family members regarding a transfer.                                  |        |            |       |                                              |
|Facility policy mandates that:                                               |        |            |       |                                              |
|Times and transfer plans are never discussed with the detainee prior to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|transfer.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee is not notified of the transfer until immediately prior to      |        |            |       |                                              |
|departing the facility.                                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee is not permitted to make any phone calls or have contact with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|any detainee in the general population.                                      |        |            |       |                                              |
|The detainee is provided with a completed Detainee Transfer Notification     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Form.                                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Form G-391 or equivalent authorizing the removal of a detainee from a        |        |            |       |                                              |
|facility is used.                                                            |        |            |       |                                              |
|For medical transfers:                                                       |        |            |       |                                              |
|The Division of Immigration Health Services (DIHS) Medical Director or       |        |            |       |                                              |
|designee approves the transfer.                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical transfers are coordinated through the local ICE/DRO office.          |        |            |       |                                              |
|A medical transfer summary is completed and accompanies the detainee.        |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee is issued a minimum of 7 days worth of prescription medications.    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainees are transferred with a completed transfer summary sheet in a sealed|        |            |       |                                              |
|envelope with the detainee’s name and A-number and the envelope is marked    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Medical Confidential.                                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|For medical transfers, transporting officers receive instructions regarding  |        |            |       |                                              |
|medical issues.                                                              |        |            |       |                                              |
|Detainee’s funds, valuables and property are returned and transferred with   |        |            |       |                                              |
|the detainee to his or her new location.                                     |        |            |       |                                              |
|Transfer and documentary procedures outlined in Section C and D are followed.|        |            |       |                                              |
|Indigent detainees unable to make a telephone call at their new location are |        |            |       |                                              |
|able to make a telephone call at the governments expense within 12 hours of  |        |            |       |                                              |
|arrivial.                                                                    |        |            |       |                                              |
|Meals are provided when transfers occur during normally schedule meal times. |        |            |       |                                              |
|An A-File or work folder accompanies the detainee when transferred to a      |        |            |       |                                              |
|different Field Office or sub-office.                                        |        |            |       |                                              |
|A-Files are forwarded to the receiving office via overnight mail no later    |        |            |       |                                              |
|than one business day following the transfer.                                |        |            |       |                                              |
|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                         |


                                      Meets Standard   Does Not Meet Standard      N/A        Repeat Finding

Remarks: (Record significant facts, observations, other sources used, etc.)
     


Reviewer’s Signature / Date



[pic]
                                                     U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement
                                                         Office of Detention and Removal
                                                                      [pic]





                                                                      [pic]




                                                  National Performance-Based Detention Standards
                                                   Outcome Measures for Over 72 Hour Facilities

                                                                September 9, 2008




[pic]
                                                          Detention Management Division
                                                                 801 I Street NW
                                                               Washington, DC 20536
[pic]





What is “Performance-Based”?

Unlike “policy and procedures” that focus solely on what is to be done, performance-based  standards  start  with  a  focus  on  the  results  or
outcomes the required procedures are expected to accomplish.  Each National Performance-Based Detention Standard (NDS)  includes  clearly  stated
Expected Outcomes to reflect the standard’s contribution to the agency’s broader mission and detention goals.

The Expected Practices in each NDS represent what is to be done to accomplish the Expected Outcomes that address the Detention  Standard  Purpose
and Scope.  Outcome Measures are the indicators examined in order to determine whether (or how  well)  a  facility  is  addressing  the  Expected
Outcomes.  Outcome data, along with the levels of compliance with Expected Practices are considered as part of the totality of  conditions  in  a
facility.

The new National Performance-Based National Detention Standards address or  incorporate  American  Correctional  Association  (ACA)  Adult  Local
Detention Facility Standards, which are the industry benchmark.

Worksheet Overview

Two sets of Detention Review Worksheets are used to assess compliance with the National Performance-Based Detention Standards  (NDS)  –  both  of
which are derived from the Expected Practices articulated in the Standards themselves:

      ▪ The G324A is used for facilities that house detainees for over 72 hours.
      ▪ The G324B is used for facilities that house detainees for under 72 hours.

The G324B is for use with under 72 hour facilities and does not contain as much detail on the following NDS as is included in the 324A:
Correspondence and Other Mail, Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies, Law Libraries and Legal Material, Legal Rights Group Presentations,
Marriage Requests, Recreation, and Voluntary Work Program. These standards were not included in the prior version of the 324B due to the short
term nature of the detention in facilities that are used for 72 hours or less. These sections are now included in the 324B but only only to the
extent that facilities seek applicability and are not mandated by ICE. For example, voluntary work programs are not required, but if detainees
work, compliance with the NDS is required.

Mandatory components in several of the standards are noted on the worksheets. Mandatory items must be met in order for the facility to receive  a
satisfactory rating for that standard.  These mandatory components typically represent life safety issues.  A Does Not  Meet  rating  on  one  of
these components is very serious, failing to meet one of the mandatory components means that the overall facility review rating will be Does  Not
Meet Standards.

The Outcome Measures Worksheet section is  completely  new  for  the  National  Performance-Based  Detention  Standards.   The  Outcome  Measures
Worksheets are to be will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the review team. Ideally, this information will be maintained  on  a
continuous basis by the facility as part of an Outcome Measures database to provide a  perpetual  record  for  monitoring  facility  performance.
Detention reviewers will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and trends.



Worksheet Completion

Reviewers are required to complete each item of each section of the G324A and G324B Detention Review Worksheets.  Worksheets  are  in  a  uniform
format with six columns with NDS purpose and scope cited at the top of the worksheet.  Column 1 contains the NDS standard  assessment  component.
Columns 2-5 are provided for the ratings assigned to each component that is assessed.  While there is a column titled N/A or not applicable,  the
NA rating should be used rarely and only when it applies.  The remarks section is provided for reviewers to include details on each  rating  that
may raise a question such as the Does Not Meet Standards or N/A ratings.   Reviewers  may  find  it  useful  to  include  rationale  for  Exceeds
Standards ratings as well.



A Remarks section is provided at the end of the outcome measures section for  summary  comments  and  analysis  of  outcome  measures  data.  The
information included in the worksheet components Remarks sections and in the final summary Remarks section should be considered for inclusion  in
the reviewer report that summarizes the overall facility review process.



Outcome Measures Completion

The Outcome Measures Worksheets will be completed by facility staff prior to arrival of the  review  team.  Ideally,  this  information  will  be
maintained on a continuous basis by the facility as part of an Outcome Measures database to provide a perpetual record  for  monitoring  facility
performance.  Data should be verified as accurate by the facility before including it in the database.



Detention reviewers will review facility outcome measures data and provide analysis of the data to describe facility performance and  trends.  In
a few instances outcome  measures  are  not  provided  for  some  the  National  Performance-Based  Detention  Standards  because  after  careful
consideration of the standard the assessment process has been determined to be more process-oriented in nature.









                                                                Table of Contents


PART 1      SAFETY
      1     Emergency Plans
      2     Environmental Health and Safety
      3     Transportation (By Land)

PART 2      SECURITY
      4     Admission and Release
      5     Classification System
      6     Contraband
      7     Facility Security and Control
      8     Funds and Personal Property
      9     Hold Rooms in Detention Facilities
      10    Key and Lock Control
      11    Population Counts
      12    Post Orders
      13    Searches of Detainees
      14    Sexual Abuse and Assault Prevention and Intervention
      15    Special Management Units
      16    Staff-Detainee Communication
      17    Tool Control
      18    Use of Force and Restraints

PART 3      ORDER
      19    Disciplinary System

PART 4      CARE
      20    Food Service
      21    Hunger Strikes
      22    Medical Care
      23    Personal Hygiene
      24    Suicide Prevention and Intervention
      25    Terminal Illness, Advance Directives, and Death

PART 5      ACTIVITIES
      26    Correspondence and Other Mail
      27    Escorted Trips for Non-Medical Emergencies
      28    Marriage Requests
      29    Recreation
      30    Religious Practices
      31    Telephone Access
      32    Visitation
      33    Voluntary Work Program

PART 6      JUSTICE
      34    Detainee Handbook
      35    Grievance System
      36    Law Libraries and Legal Material
      37    Legal Rights Group Presentations

PART 7      ADMINISTRATION & MANAGEMENT
      38    Detention Files
      39    News Media Interviews and Tours
      40    Staff Training
      41    Transfer of Detainees


|PART 1 – 1. EMERGENCY PLANS                                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively   |
|respond to any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|WorksheetItem #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|17                 |1 (Key)           |Number of injuries resulting from fires requiring medical         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |treatment                                                         |               |                       |
|                   |(1C09)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|19,21              |2 (Key)           |Number of fires that resulted in property damage                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |(1C10)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|21                 |3 (Key)           |Number of hours that facility operations were suspended due to    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |emergencies that were not caused by forces external to the        |               |                       |
|                   |(1C08)            |facility                                                          |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of emergencies.                             |               |                       |
|21                 |4                 |Number of emergencies, caused by forces external to the facility, |               |                       |
|                   |                  |that result in property damage                                    |               |                       |
|                   |(1C01)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|21                 |5                 |Dollar amount of property damage from fire                        |               |                       |
|                   |(1C11)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|21                 |6                 |Number of code violations cited                                   |               |                       |
|                   |(1C12)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|21                 |7                 |Number of incidents of inventory discrepancies                    |               |                       |
|                   |(1C14)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|21                 |8                 |Number of incidents involving toxic or caustic materials          |               |                       |
|                   |(1C13)            |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 1 – 2. ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH AND SAFETY                                                                                                      |
|This Detention Standard ensures a safe environment for detainees and employees by having in place contingency plans to quickly and effectively   |
|respond to any emergency situations that arise and to minimize their severity.                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet          |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #             |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|3, 8, 13           |1 (Key)           |Number of worker's compensation claims filed for injuries that    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |resulted from the physical environment.                           |               |                       |
|                   |(1A01)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average number of full-time equivalent staff       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |positions                                                         |               |                       |
|1,8,13,18          |2 (Key)           |Number of physical injuries or emotional traumas requiring        |               |                       |
|                   |(1A04)            |treatment as a result of the physical environment of the facility |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|27,30,31           |3 (Key)           |Number of sanitation or health-code violations identified by      |               |                       |
|                   |(1A06)            |external agencies                                                 |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|3,10,17,36         |4 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances related to safety or sanitation     |               |                       |
|                   |(1A08)            |found in favor of detainees                                       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of detainee’s grievances related to safety  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |or sanitation.                                                    |               |                       |
|9                  |5 (Key)           |Number of detainee injuries resulting from fires requiring medical|               |                       |
|                   |(1A10)            |treatment in a 12-month period                                    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|19,30,31,33,36,37  |6                 |Number of illnesses requiring medical attention as a result of the|               |                       |
|                   |(1A02)            |physical environment of the facility                              |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population                           |               |                       |
|27,30,31           |7                 |Number of health code violations corrected                        |               |                       |
|                   |(1A07)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of health code violations identified.       |               |                       |
| 9                 |8                 |Number of fire-code violations corrected                          |               |                       |
|                   |(1A09)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of fire code violations cited by            |               |                       |
|                   |                  |jurisdictional authority.                                         |               |                       |
|15                 |9                 |Number of detainee injuries (other than by fire) requiring medical|               |                       |
|                   |(1A11)            |treatment                                                         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|9                  |10                |Number of staff injuries resulting from fires requiring medical   |               |                       |
|                   |(1A12)            |treatment                                                         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily number of staff in the past 12       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |months.                                                           |               |                       |
|15                 |11                |Number of staff injuries (other than fire) requiring medical      |               |                       |
|                   |(1A13)            |treatment                                                         |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of fire related incidents during the past 12|               |                       |
|                   |                  |months.                                                           |               |                       |
|15                 |12                |Number of detainee lawsuits related to safety or sanitation found |               |                       |
|                   |(1A14)            |in favor of the detainee                                          |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of detainee lawsuits related to safety or   |               |                       |
|                   |                  |sanitation                                                        |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |




|PART 1 – 3. TRANSPORTATION (BY LAND)                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard prevents harm to the general public, detainees, and staff by ensuring that vehicles are properly equipped, maintained,   |
|and operated and that detainees are transported in a secure, safe and humane manner, under the supervision of trained and experienced staff.     |
|Standard NA:  Check this box if all ICE Transportation is handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in control of the detainee case.    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1 (Key)           |Number of vehicle accidents resulting in injuries requiring       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |medical treatment for any party                                   |               |                       |
|                   |(1B02)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                     |               |                       |
|12                 |2                 |Number of vehicle accidents resulting in property damage          |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of trips                              |               |                       |
|12                 |3                 |Dollar amount of damage from vehicle accidents resulting in       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |property damage                                                   |               |                       |
|                   |(1B03)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number accidents                             |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 4. ADMISSION AND RELEASE                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects the community, detainees, staff, volunteers, and contractors by ensuring secure and orderly operations when     |
|detainees are admitted to or released from a facility.                                                                                           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1 (Key)           |Total number of detainees who received orientation presentations  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |over the last year                                                |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of detainees admitted into the        |               |                       |
|                   |                  |facility over the last year                                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |



|PART 2 – 5. CLASSIFICATION SYSTEM                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects the detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm, and contributes to orderly facility |
|operations, by requiring a formal classification process for managing and separating detainees that is based on verifiable and documented data.  |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                       |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|2                  |1 (Key)           |Number of escapes from the facility                               |               |                       |
|                   |(2A05)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|2,3,4              |2                 |Number of level 1 detainees admitted during the past 12 months    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by total number of detainees admitted during the past 12  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                       |
|2,3,4              |3                 |Number of level 2 detainees admitted during the past 12 months    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by total number of detainees admitted during the past 12  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                       |
|2,3,4              |4                 |Number of level 3 detainees admitted during the past 12 months    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by total number of detainees admitted during the past 12  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                       |
|9,10,11            |5                 |Number of classification appeals won over the last 12 months      |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of classification appeals filed over the    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |last 12 months                                                    |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                 |

|PART 2 – 6. CONTRABAND                                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by identifying, detecting, controlling, and        |
|properly disposing of contraband.                                                                                                                     |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                                   |Value         |Outcome Measure        |
|6,7                |1 (Key)           |Number of weapons found in the facility over the past 12 months         |              |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                                        |              |                       |
|                   |(2C03)            |                                                                        |              |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                                |              |                       |
|6,7                |2 (Key)           |Number of controlled substances found in the facility                   |              |                       |
|                   |(2C04)            |                                                                        |              |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                                |              |                       |
|8                  |3                 |Number of incident reports involving contraband                         |              |                       |
|                   |(2C01)            |                                                                        |              |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                                |              |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                      |

|PART 2 – 7. FACILITY SECURITY AND CONTROL                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive initial|
|and ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|13                 |1                 |Number of incidents                                               |               |                           |
|                   |(2A01)            |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                           |
|3,4                |2                 |Number of full time employees (FTE) filled                        |               |                           |
|                   |                  |Number of FTE authorized                                          |               |                           |
|3,4                |3                 |Number of security employees (FTE) filled                         |               |                           |
|                   |                  |Number of security FTE authorized                                 |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |

|PART 2 - 8. FUNDS AND PERSONAL PROPERTY                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees’ personal property is safeguarded and controlled, specifically including funds, valuables, baggage and|
|other personnel property, and that contraband does not enter a detention facility.                                                                   |
|Standard NA:  (IGSA ONLY) Check this box if all ICE detainee Funds, Valuables and Property are handled only by the ICE Field Office or Sub-Office in |
|control of the detainee case.                                                                                                                        |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|29, 30, 31         |1 (Key)           |Number of missing property claims submitted during the past 12    |               |                           |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of detainees admitted during the past 12    |               |                           |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                           |
|29, 30, 31         |2 (Key)           |Number of grievances filed by detainees regarding their property  |               |                           |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                   |(7D03)            |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                           |
|7                  |3 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances on property decided in favor of     |               |                           |
|                   |                  |detainees                                                         |               |                           |
|                   |(7D04)            |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of detainee                           |               |                           |
|                   |                  |grievances on property.                                           |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |


|PART 2 – 9. HOLD ROOMS IN DETENTION FACILITIES                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures the safety, security, and comfort of detainees temporarily held in Hold Rooms pending further processing.  The       |
|maximum aggregate time an individual may be confined in a facility’s Hold Room is 12 hours.                                                          |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|6                  |1 (Key)           |Number of detainees kept in hold rooms beyond the 12 hour time    |               |                           |
|                   |                  |constraint in the past 12 months                                  |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of admissions                               |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |


|PART 2 – 10. KEY AND LOCK CONTROL                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard maintains facility safety and security by requiring that keys and locks be properly controlled and maintained.               |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|WorksheetItem #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|21                 |1                 |Number of incidents involving keys                                |               |                           |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                   |(2D01)            |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                           |
|21                 |2                 |Number of incidents involving locks                               |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |



|PART 2 – 11. POPULATION COUNTS                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard protects the community from harm and enhances facility security, safety, and good order by requiring that each facility have |
|an ongoing, effective system of population counts and detainee accountability.                                                                       |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|2                  |1                 |Number of incident reports involving count issues (delayed counts,|               |                           |
|                   |                  |inaccurate counts, recounts…)                                     |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of counts.                            |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |


|PART 2 – 12. POST ORDERS                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by ensuring that each officer assigned to a       |
|security post knows the procedures, duties, and responsibilities of that post.                                                                       |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|                   |                  |NA                                                                |               |                           |
|                   |                  |                                                                  |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |


|PART 2 – 13. SEARCHES OF DETAINEES                                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees and staff and enhances facility security and good order by detecting, controlling, and properly disposing |
|of contraband.                                                                                                                                       |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                            |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|5                  |1 (Key)           |Number of strip searches conducted over the past 12 months        |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by number of detainees admitted into the facility over the|               |                           |
|                   |                  |past 12 months                                                    |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                      |

|PART 2– 14. SEXUAL ABUSE AND ASSAULT PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard requires that facilities that house ICE/DRO detainees affirmatively act to prevent sexual abuse and assaults on detainees,   |
|provide prompt and effective intervention and treatment for victims of sexual abuse and assault, and control, discipline, and prosecute the          |
|perpetrators of sexual abuse and assault.                                                                                                            |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                           |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                            |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|10                  |1 (Key)           |Number of confirmed sexual misconduct incidents between staff and|               |                           |
|                    |                  |detainees                                                        |               |                           |
|                    |(4D11)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population for the past 12 months.  |               |                           |
|10                  |2 (Key)           |Number of confirmed sexual misconduct incidents between          |               |                           |
|                    |                  |volunteers and/or contract personnel and detainees               |               |                           |
|                    |(4D12)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                           |
|10                  |3                 |Number of alleged sexual misconduct incidents between staff and  |               |                           |
|                    |                  |detainees                                                        |               |                           |
|                    |(4D09)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                           |
|10                  |4                 |Number of alleged sexual misconduct incidents between volunteers |               |                           |
|                    |                  |and/or contract personnel and detainees                          |               |                           |
|                    |(4D10)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                     |





|PART 2 – 15. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT UNITS                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, volunteers, and the community from harm by segregating certain detainees from the    |
|general population in Special Management Units (SMUs) with an Administrative Segregation section for detainees segregated for administrative reasons |
|and a Disciplinary Segregation section for detainees segregated for disciplinary reasons.                                                            |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                           |
|Worksheet          |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|Item #             |                  |                                                                  |               |                           |
|47                 |1                 |Number of detainees held in SMU beyond 30 days during the past 12 |               |                           |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of admissions to segregation in the past 12 |               |                           |
|                   |                  |months                                                            |               |                           |
|36                 |2                 |Number of grievances regarding access to courts found in favor of |               |                           |
|                   |                  |the detainee during the past 12 months while in SMU               |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of grievances regarding access to courts    |               |                           |
|                   |                  |during the past 12 months while in SMU                            |               |                           |
|40,41,42           |3                 |Number of grievances regarding access to  recreation activities   |               |                           |
|                   |                  |found in favor of the detainee during the past 12 months while in |               |                           |
|                   |                  |SMU                                                               |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of grievances regarding access to           |               |                           |
|                   |                  |recreation activities during the past 12 months while in SMU      |               |                           |
|1                  |4                 |Number of incidents in SMU                                        |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the number of admissions to SMU.                       |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                     |


  |PART 2 – 16. STAFF-DETAINEE COMMUNICATION                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard enhances security, safety, and orderly facility operations by encouraging and requiring informal direct and written contact  |
|among staff and detainees, as well as informal supervisory observation of living and working conditions.                                             |
|                                                                                                                                                     |
|It also requires the posting of Hotline informational posters from the Department of Homeland Security Office of the Inspector General.              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                           |
|Worksheet Item #       |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|1,2,3                  |1 (Key)         |Number of ICE scheduled visits during the last 12 months       |               |                           |
|                       |                |divided by 52 (weeks).                                         |               |                           |
|1,2,3                  |2               |Number of ICE unannounced visits during the last 12 months     |               |                           |
|                       |                |divided by 52 (weeks).                                         |               |                           |
|5,8,9                  |3               |Number of Staff Detainee Request forms responded to within 72  |               |                           |
|                       |                |hours                                                          |               |                           |
|                       |                |divided total number of Staff Detainee Request forms for the   |               |                           |
|                       |                |past 12 months                                                 |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                     |






|PART 2-17. TOOL CONTROL                                                                                                                             |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees, staff, contractors, and volunteers from harm and contributes to orderly facility operations by          |
|maintaining control of tools, culinary utensils, and medical and dental instruments, equipment, and supplies.                                       |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                          |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                            |Value          |Outcome Measure            |
|3                  |1                 |Number of incidents involving tools                              |               |                           |
|                   |(2D02)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                           |
|3                  |2                 |Number of incidents involving culinary equipment                 |               |                           |
|                   |                  |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                   |(2D03)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                           |
|3                  |3                 |Number of incidents involving medical equipment and sharps       |               |                           |
|                   |                  |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                   |(2D04)            |                                                                 |               |                           |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                         |               |                           |
|                                                                                                                                                    |


|PART 2 – 18. USE OF FORCE AND RESTRAINTS                                                                                                        |
|This Detention Standard authorizes staff to use necessary force after all reasonable efforts to otherwise resolve a situation have failed, for  |
|protection of all persons; to minimize injury to self, detainees, staff, and others for prevention of escape or serious property damage, or to  |
|maintain the security and orderly operation of the facility.                                                                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #      |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|7, 28                 |1 (Key)           |Number of instances in which force was used                   |               |                       |
|                      |                  |                                                              |               |                       |
|                      |(2B01)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|7, 9                  |2 (Key)           |Number of times that staff uses of force were found to have   |               |                       |
|                      |                  |been inappropriate                                            |               |                       |
|                      |(2B03)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the number of uses of force                        |               |                       |
|16,21                 |3 (Key)           |Number of injuries requiring medical treatment resulting from |               |                       |
|                      |                  |staff use of force                                            |               |                       |
|                      |(2B06)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the average daily population                       |               |                       |
|7, 9                  |4 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances filed alleging inappropriate use|               |                       |
|                      |                  |of force decided in favor of the detainees                    |               |                       |
|                      |(2B04)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                      |                  |divided by the number of grievances alleging inappropriate    |               |                       |
|                      |                  |uses of force.                                                |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |


|PART 3 – 19. DISCIPLINARY SYSTEM                                                                                                                |
|This Detention Standard promotes a safe and orderly living environment for detainees by establishing a fair and equitable disciplinary system,  |
|requiring detainees to comply with facility rules and regulations, and imposing disciplinary sanctions to those who do not comply.              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #      |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                     |1 (Key)         |Number of rule violation reports                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |(3A01)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|1                     |2 (Key)         |Number of assaults -- detainee against detainee                |               |                       |
|                      |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |(3A02)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|1                     |3 (Key)         |Number of assaults -- detainee against staff                   |               |                       |
|                      |(3A02)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|1                     |4 (Key)         |Number of 100 and 200 level violations                         |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|1                     |5 (Key)         |Number of 300 and 400 level violations                         |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|6                     |6               |Number of disciplinary violations resolved at the unit level   |               |                       |
|                      |                |divided by the total number of disciplinary violations         |               |                       |
|                      |                |adjudicated                                                    |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 4 – 20. FOOD SERVICE                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees are provided a nutritionally balanced diet that is prepared and presented in a sanitary and      |
|hygienic food service operation.                                                                                                                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|3                   |1 (Key)           |Number of documented detainee illnesses attributed to food     |               |                       |
|                    |                  |service operations                                             |               |                       |
|                    |(4A01)            |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population (ADP)                  |               |                       |
|3                   |2 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances about food service decided in    |               |                       |
|                    |                  |favor of the detainee the past 12 months                       |               |                       |
|                    |(4A02)            |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the number of detainee grievances about food        |               |                       |
|                    |                  |service.                                                       |               |                       |
|52                  |3 (Key)           |Number of violations cited by independent authorities for food |               |                       |
|                    |                  |sanitation in the past 12 months.                              |               |                       |
|                    |(4A03)            |                                                               |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |






|PART 4 – 21. HUNGER STRIKES                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ health and well-being by monitoring, counseling, and providing appropriate treatment to any detainee|
|who is on a hunger strike                                                                                                                       |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet         |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #            |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|1                 |1 (Key)           |Number of  hunger strikes during past 12 months                   |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the average daily population                           |               |                       |
|13                |2 (Key)           |Number of detainees transported to outside facilities as a result |               |                       |
|                  |                  |of a hunger strike                                                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of hunger strikes during the past 12 months |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |


|PART 4 – 22. MEDICAL CARE                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees have access to a continuum of prompt, effective health care and emergency care services, so that |
|their health care needs are met in a timely and efficient manner at no cost to detainees.                                                       |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value     |Outcome Measure           |
|67                  |1 (Key)          |Number of detainee deaths due to injuries                         |          |                          |
|                    |(4C12)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|67                  |2 (Key)          |Number of medically expected detainee deaths                      |          |                          |
|                    |(4C13)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|67                  |3 (Key)          |Number of medically unexpected detainee deaths                    |          |                          |
|                    |                 |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |(4C14)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|29,67               |4 (Key)          |Number of detainee admissions to off-site hospitals               |          |                          |
|                    |                 |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |(4C16)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|5,29                |5 (Key)          |Number of detainees transported off-site (via an ambulance or     |          |                          |
|                    |                 |correctional vehicle) for treatment of emergency health conditions|          |                          |
|                    |(4C17)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|1                   |6 (Key)          |Number of detainee grievances about access to health care services|          |                          |
|                    |                 |found in favor of the detainee                                    |          |                          |
|                    |(4C19)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the number of detainee grievances about access to      |          |                          |
|                    |                 |healthcare services                                               |          |                          |
|1                   |7 (Key)          |Number of detainee grievances related to the quality of health    |          |                          |
|                    |                 |care found in favor of detainees                                  |          |                          |
|                    |(4C20)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |Divided by the number of detainee grievances related to the       |          |                          |
|                    |                 |quality of health care                                            |          |                          |
|2,9                 |8 (Key)          |Number of staff with lapsed licensure and/or certification        |          |                          |
|                    |(4D01)           |divided by the number of licensed or certified staff.             |          |                          |
|23                  |9                |Number of detainees with a positive tuberculin skin test on       |          |                          |
|                    |                 |admission                                                         |          |                          |
|                    |(4C01)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the number of admissions.                              |          |                          |
|23                  |10               |Number of detainees diagnosed with active tuberculosis            |          |                          |
|                    |                 |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |(4C02)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|23                  |11               |Number of conversions to a positive tuberculin skin test          |          |                          |
|                    |                 |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |(4C03)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the number of tuberculin skin tests given.             |          |                          |
|23                  |12               |Number of detainees with a positive tuberculin skin test who      |          |                          |
|                    |                 |complete prophylaxis treatment for tuberculosis                   |          |                          |
|                    |(4C04)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the number of detainees with a positive tuberculin skin|          |                          |
|                    |                 |test on prophylaxis treatment for tuberculosis.                   |          |                          |
|44                  |13               |Number of Hepatitis C positive detainees                          |          |                          |
|                    |(4C05)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|44                  |14               |Number of HIV positive detainees                                  |          |                          |
|                    |(4C06)           |                                                                  |          |                          |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                          |          |                          |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 4 – 23. PERSONAL HYGIENE                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee is able to maintain acceptable personal hygiene practices through the provision of adequate|
|bathing facilities and the issuance and exchange of clean clothing, bedding, linens, towels, and personal hygiene items.                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1,2                 |1 (Key)           |Detainee grievances regarding detainee access to personal     |               |                       |
|                    |                  |hygiene decided in favor of the detainee                      |               |                       |
|                    |(4B01)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|1,2                 |2 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances related to hygiene found in     |               |                       |
|                    |                  |favor of the detainee                                         |               |                       |
|                    |(4B04)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the number of detainee grievances related to       |               |                       |
|                    |                  |hygiene.                                                      |               |                       |
|7,8                 |3                 |Number of detainees diagnosed with hygiene-related conditions |               |                       |
|                    |                  |(scabies, lice, or fungal infections)                         |               |                       |
|                    |(4B03)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|7                   |4                 |Number of detainee lawsuits related to hygiene found in favor |               |                       |
|                    |                  |of the detainee.                                              |               |                       |
|                    |(4B05)            |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                  |divided by the number of detainee lawsuits related to hygiene |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |




|PART 4 – 24. SUICIDE PREVENTION AND INTERVENTION                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard protects the health and well-being of immigration detainees by training detention facility staff in effective methods  |
|for preventing suicide.  More specifically, facility staff will be trained to recognize and identify potential signs, behaviors, or situations |
|which suggest a detainee may be a suicide risk.  Facility staff will also be trained to proceed with the appropriate sensitivity, supervision, |
|referral, reporting, medical emergency intervention, and treatment when required to take action in order to prevent or minimize such a risk.   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                     |
|Worksheet           |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #              |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|3                   |1 (Key)         |Number of detainee suicide attempts                            |               |                       |
|                    |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |(4C09)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |                |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|4                   |2 (Key)         |Number of detainee suicides                                    |               |                       |
|                    |(4C10)          |                                                               |               |                       |
|                    |                |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                               |

|PART 4 – 25. TERMINAL ILLNESS, ADVANCE DIRECTIVES, AND DEATH                                                                                  |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each facility’s continuum of health care services addresses terminal illness, fatal injury, and advance  |
|directives and provides specific guidance in the event of a detainee’s death.                                                                 |
|Check this box if the facility does not accept ICE detainees who are severely or terminally ill.  Indicate NA in the appropriate box for this |
|portion of the worksheet.  ALWAYS complete all references to detainee death and related notifications.                                        |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet          |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|Item #             |                  |                                                               |               |                       |
|                   |                  |NA                                                             |               |                       |
|                   |                  |                                                               |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |


|PART 5 – 26. CORRESPONDENCE AND OTHER MAIL                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to correspond with their families, the community, legal representatives,          |
|government offices, and consular officials consistent with the safe and orderly operation of the facility.                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|8,9,10             |1 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances regarding correspondence and     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |other mail                                                     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population                        |               |                       |
|8,9,10             |2 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances regarding correspondence and     |               |                       |
|                   |                  |other mail decided in favor of detainees                       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of grievances                      |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |



|PART 5 – 27. ESCORTED TRIPS FOR NON-MEDICAL EMERGENCIES                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard permits detainees to maintain ties with their families and the community by providing detainees emergency           |
|staff-escorted trips into the community to visit critically ill members of the immediate family or to attend their funerals.                |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                  |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                 |1               |Number of escorted trips denied                                |               |                       |
|                  |                |Divided by the number of requests received                     |               |                       |
|14                |2               |Number of detainees who became disruptive during the trip      |               |                       |
|                  |                |resulting in the trip’s termination                            |               |                       |
|                  |                |Divided by the number of escorted trips taken                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                            |


|PART 5 – 28. MARRIAGE REQUESTS                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each marriage request from an ICE/DRO detainee receives a case-by-case review and based on internal    |
|guidelines for approval of such requests.                                                                                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                  |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                  |                |NA                                                             |               |                       |
|                  |                |                                                               |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                            |



  |PART 5 - 29. RECREATION                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that each detainee has access to recreational and exercise programs and activities, within the constraints of |
|safety, security, and good order.                                                                                                             |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure    |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1,6,7,8            |1                  |Average number of detainees participating in recreation per   |               |                       |
|                   |                   |day                                                           |               |                       |
|                   |                   |divided by the average daily population                       |               |                       |
|18                 |2                  |Number of detainee grievances, regarding: recreation          |               |                       |
|                   |                   |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|1                  |3                  |Number of detainee voluntary transfers (recreation related)   |               |                       |
|                   |                   |approved                                                      |               |                       |
|                   |                   |divided by the total number of voluntary transfers (recreation|               |                       |
|                   |                   |related) requested                                            |               |                       |
|1                  |4                  |Number of voluntary transfers (recreation related) requested  |               |                       |
|                   |                   |divided by the average daily population                       |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |




|PART 5 – 30. RELIGIOUS PRACTICES                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees of different religious beliefs are provided reasonable and equitable opportunities to          |
|participate in the practices of their respective faiths, constrained only by concerns about safety, security, the orderly operation of the    |
|facility, or extraordinary costs associated with a specific practice.                                                                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1 (Key)           |Number of detainee grievances regarding religious practices    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|1                  |2                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding religious practices    |               |                       |
|                   |                  |decided in favor of detainees                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of grievances filed                |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 5 – 31. TELEPHONE ACCESS                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees may maintain ties with their families and others in the community, legal representatives,      |
|consulates, courts, and government agencies by providing them reasonable and equitable access to telephone services.                          |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|27                 |1                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding telephone access       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|27                 |2                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding telephone access       |               |                       |
|                   |                  |decided in favor of detainees                                  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of grievances filed                |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |



|PART 5 – 32. VISITATION                                                                                                                       |
|This Detention Standard ensures that detainees will be able to maintain morale and ties through visitation with their families, the community,|
|legal representatives, and consular officials, within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.                                    |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #   |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                          |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                  |1                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding visitation             |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the average daily population.                       |               |                       |
|1                  |2                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding visitation decided in  |               |                       |
|                   |                  |favor of detainees                                             |               |                       |
|                   |                  |divided by the total number of grievances filed                |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |






|PART 5 – 33. VOLUNTARY WORK PROGRAM                                                                                                            |
|This Detention Standard provides detainees opportunities to work and earn money while confined, subject to the number of work opportunities    |
|available and within the constraints of safety, security, and good order.  While not legally required to do so, ICE/DRO affords working        |
|detainees basic Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) protections.                                                              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                     |
|WorksheetItem # |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|8               |1                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding voluntary work program    |               |                       |
|                |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|8               |2                 |Number of detainee grievances regarding voluntary work program    |               |                       |
|                |                  |decided in favor of detainees                                     |               |                       |
|                |                  |divided by the total number of grievances filed                   |               |                       |
|1,3             |3                 |Average number of detainees participating in the voluntary work   |               |                       |
|                |                  |program                                                           |               |                       |
|                |                  |divided by the average daily population                           |               |                       |
|1,3             |4                 |Average monthly total wages paid to detainees                     |               |                       |
|                |                  |divided by the average daily population                           |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                               |


|PART 6 - 34.  DETAINEE HANDBOOK                                                                                                               |
|This Detention Standard requires that, upon admission, every detainee be provided comprehensive written orientation materials that describe   |
|such matters as the facility’s rules and sanctions, disciplinary system, mail and visiting procedures, grievance system, services, programs,  |
|and medical care, in English, Spanish, and other languages and that detainees acknowledge receipt of those materials.                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                            |Value       |Outcome Measure        |
|                    |                 |NA                                                               |            |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                                 |            |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 6 – 35. GRIEVANCE SYSTEM                                                                                                                 |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights and ensures they are treated fairly by providing a procedure by which they may file formal |
|grievances and receive timely responses.                                                                                                      |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                    |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                         |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|7                   |1 (Key)          |Number of detainee grievances regarding discrimination        |               |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |(6B01)           |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|8,11                |2 (Key)          |Number of detainee grievances regarding discrimination        |               |                       |
|                    |                 |resolved in favor of detainees                                |               |                       |
|                    |(6B02)           |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the total number of detainee grievances filed      |               |                       |
|                    |                 |regarding discrimination.                                     |               |                       |
|8,11                |3 (Key)          |Number of grievances resolved in favor of detainees           |               |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |(6B03)           |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                      |               |                       |
|8,11                |4 (Key)          |Number of grievances resolved in favor of detainees           |               |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |(6B04)           |                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the total number of grievances filed.              |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                              |

|PART 6 – 36. LAW LIBRARIES AND LEGAL MATERIAL                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to courts, counsel, and comprehensive legal materials.              |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                           |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|18                  |1                |Number of detainee grievances regarding access to court decided |               |                       |
|                    |                 |in favor of detainees.                                          |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the total number of grievances filed                 |               |                       |
|18                  |2                |Number of detainee grievances, regarding access to court        |               |                       |
|                    |                 |divided by the average daily population.                        |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 6 - 37. LEGAL RIGHTS GROUP PRESENTATIONS                                                                                                   |
|This Detention Standard protects detainees’ rights by ensuring their access to information presented by authorized persons and organizations for|
|the purpose of informing them of U.S. immigration law and procedures.                                                                           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                  |                  |NA                                                                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 7 – 38. DETENTION FILES                                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard contributes to efficient and responsible facility management by maintaining for each detainee booked into a facility for|
|more than 24 hours a file of all significant information about that person.                                                                     |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|2                 |1                 |Number of detainee grievances on records decided in favor of      |               |                       |
|                  |                  |detainees                                                         |               |                       |
|                  |(7D04)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the total number of detainee grievances.               |               |                       |
|2                 |2                 |Number of detainee grievances on records                          |               |                       |
|                  |(7D03)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |                  |Divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |








|PART 7 - 39. NEWS MEDIA INTERVIEWS AND TOURS                                                                                                    |
|This Detention Standard ensures that the public and the media are informed of events within the facility’s areas of responsibility through      |
|interviews and tours.                                                                                                                           |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
| 1,3              |1                 |Number of complaints filed by the public/media regarding access to|               |                       |
|                  |                  |information and/or the facility                                   |               |                       |
|                  |(7F03)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|1,3               |2                 |Number of positive letters/news articles made by the public/media |               |                       |
|                  |                  |regarding the facility                                            |               |                       |
|                  |(7F04)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the average daily population.                          |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

|PART 7 – 40. STAFF TRAINING                                                                                                                     |
|This Detention Standard ensures that staff, contractors, and volunteers are competent in their assigned duties by requiring that they receive   |
|initial and ongoing refresher training.                                                                                                         |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #  |Outcome Measure   |Numerator/Denominator                                             |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|1                 |1 (Key)           |Number of staff who left employment for any reason                |               |                       |
|                  |                  |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |(7B02)            |                                                                  |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of full-time equivalent staff positions.    |               |                       |
|4                 |2                 |Number of initial training hours provided in the past 12 months   |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of staff hired in the past 12 months        |               |                       |
|4                 |3                 |Number of annual training hours provided in the past 12 months    |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the average number of FTE in the past 12 months        |               |                       |
|26                |4                 |Number of credit hours in course relevant to their facility       |               |                       |
|                  |                  |responsibilities earned by staff participating in higher          |               |                       |
|                  |                  |education                                                         |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of full-time equivalent staff positions.    |               |                       |
|26                |5                 |Number of professional development events attended by staff       |               |                       |
|                  |                  |divided by the number of full-time equivalent staff positions     |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |


|PART 7 - 41. TRANSFER OF DETAINEES                                                                                                              |
|This Detention Standard ensures that transfers of detainees from one facility to another are professionally and responsibly managed in regard to|
|notifications, detainee records, safety and security, and protection of detainee funds and personal property.                                   |
|Outcome Measures Worksheet                                                                                                                      |
|Worksheet Item #    |Outcome Measure  |Numerator/Denominator                                           |Value          |Outcome Measure        |
|                    |                 |NA                                                              |               |                       |
|                    |                 |                                                                |               |                       |
|                                                                                                                                                |

