Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 1 of 120

SECTION B ­ SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS B.1. SCHEDULE OF SERVICES The purpose of this contract is to acquire, on an Indefinite Delivery Indefinite Quantity (IDIQ) basis, information technology services for the maintenance, functionality, reporting, and enhancement of the Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS). Except as may be otherwise expressly set forth in this contract, the Contractor shall furnish all personnel, facilities, equipment, material, supplies, and services, in performance of the services specified under Section C ­ Performance Work Statement (PWS) and delivered within the Deliverable Schedule and within the period of performance specified in Section F ­ Deliveries or Performance. B.2. PRICE SCHEDULE All Task Orders issued will be on a Labor-Hour (LH) and/or Firm-Fixed-Price (FFP) basis, with pricing provided in accordance with the below rate table. The labor rates in this section shall reflect the fully burdened rates of each labor category.
Base Period CLIN* August 1, 2011 through July 31, 2012 Option Period 1 August 1, 2012 through July 31, 2013 Option Period 2 August 1, 2013 through July 31, 2014 Option Period 3 August 1, 2014 through July 31, 2015

Project Leader Senior Systems Architect Senior IT Specialist IT Specialist Junior IT Specialist

*Additional Labor Categories may be recommended by the Contractor but will only be used after prior approval by the Contracting Officer. The contractor shall be required to furnish personnel with qualifications meeting or exceeding the criteria specified in the contract governing the issuance of this requirement. Pricing for each Task Order (TO), both FFP and LH CLINS will include the backup detail of how the CLIN price was established using the above labor category rates, estimated hours.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 2 of 120

SECTION C ­ PERFORMANCE WORK SCHEDULE C.1. Scope of Work The purpose of this contract is to acquire, on an indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) basis, information technology services for the maintenance, functionality, reporting, and enhancement of the Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS). For the complete effort, as detailed in each Task Order, the contractor shall provide overall project management; and TAPS Maintenance, Functionality, Reporting, and Enhancement support. C.2 Background and Objective The United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Farm Service Agency (FSA) administers and manages farm commodity, credit, conservation, disaster, and loan programs as authorized by Congress through a network of federal, state, and county offices. FSA's administrative and programmatic functions are supported by a large network of automated systems that are maintained by its Information Technology Services Division (ITSD). ITSD is also responsible for developing new programs, replacing existing programs, and modernizing existing platforms and systems. The primary ITSD operations are located in Washington, DC and Kansas City, MO, with additional offices in St. Louis, MO. The application maintained under this Performance Work Statement (PWS) is the Tobacco Assessment and Payment System, which is made up of two major applications-Tobacco Transition Payment Program (TTPP) and the Tobacco Transition Assessment Project (TTAP). TTAP provides a mechanism by which the Government can assess the Tobacco Manufacturers and Importers of tobacco per Title VI, the "Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act" (FETRA) of the American Jobs Creation Action of 2004 (PL-108-357) that repealed the tobacco marketing quota and related price support programs, and provided for payments to persons who, during a certain period or at a certain time, had been the owners of farms with tobacco quotas or had produced regulated tobacco. FETRA is funded using assessments collected from tobacco product manufacturers and importers. Under FETRA, Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) sends out quarterly notices to tobacco manufacturers and importers, informing those entities of the assessments due to CCC. TTPP makes payments to tobacco quota holders and producers. The legislation also ends all aspects of the Federal tobacco marketing quota and price support loan programs effective with the 2005 crop year. Requirements for tobacco marketing quota and price support loan programs for the 2004 marketing year remained in effect through the end of the marketing season. The 2004 marketing year ended on June 30, 2005 for flue-cured

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 3 of 120

tobacco and all other tobaccos ended on September 30 2006. The payments are made in 10 equal annual installments that began in 2005 and will end in 2014. This system is required to: ˇ support FSA's efforts to deliver new software applications in the web environment; ˇ support a move toward customer centric systems; ˇ interface with the required applications, resolving material weaknesses; ˇ improve project planning, reporting and communication among stakeholders by supporting the Integrated Management System initiative; ˇ facilitate data entry accuracy and field operations; ˇ generate standardized reports; ˇ improve adherence to Style Guide standards and Section 508 compliance; and ˇ allow for all necessary audit functionality and increased data sharing with our partner agencies. The Government's ultimate objective under this program is to provide TAPS Maintenance, Functionality, Reporting, and Enhancement in order to ensure the user's needs are met and that standards and regulatory requirements are achieved. C.3 Functional Area (FA) The following may be requested. C.3.1 FA 1: Conduct a Startup Briefing: Within one week of the IDIQ award, the Contractor shall conduct a startup meeting with the Government if the Government so requests. The Contractor shall NOT prepare an elaborate briefing nor is it required that the Contractor expend significant resources for this task. The intent of this briefing is to initiate the communication process between the Government and the Contractor by introducing key participants and explaining their roles, reviewing communication ground rules, and assuring a common understanding of the contract requirements and objectives. The briefing shall be held at the Government's facility. Both parties shall agree to the date and time. The result of this briefing shall include the following: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Government and Contractor personnel working under this contract shall be introduced. If the Contractor is working onsite, the Government will show the Contractor the applicable facilities. The Government will provide to the Contractor, the agreed to Government Furnished Property at this time. Refer to Contract Section H. in its entirety. Any issues concerning the Minimum Background Investigation for Contractor employees shall be discussed. The Contractor shall demonstrate confirmation of their understanding of the work to be accomplished under this PWS. All Government and Contractor expectations

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 4 of 120

shall be addressed and discussed. Results shall be documented by the Contractor and delivered to the Government within two (2) days of the completion of the briefing. C.3.2 FA 2: Overall Project Management Overall project management includes day to day on-site project management and direction of the work assigned to the Contractor, reporting of project status, and participation in Disaster Recovery activities as required. The Project Manager shall be the single point of contact for communications regarding facility directives or problems and any other administrative communications. The Project Manager shall be responsible for communicating to their subordinate employees as appropriate. The creation of a "Knowledge Transfer Plan" and oversight of the execution of it shall be the responsibility of the Project Manager. The Project Manager shall ensure compliance of all SDLC, FISMA and 508 laws and regulations. C.3.3 FA 3: Production Maintenance Support: The production maintenance support is as authorized by the Business Owner or Project Owner as necessary utilizing the FSA incident tracking system, currently Remedy. All Incident Reports are tracked electronically by the Application Support Group (ASG). The ticket is entered into a current call tracking database by ASG at the Beacon Facility. The Vendor will receive the ticket electronically via email. The Contractor shall provide support to resolve production problems identified during the routine operation of the applications. These may include the need to address performance related incidents. The contractor shall be responsible for the research and resolution of problems identified as a result of production processing of the applications. These problems may include improperly functioning code and/or incorrectly implemented requirements. Production maintenance support includes problems for either user guidance or data fixes. The number varies according to the viability of the application and the attentiveness of the user. On average there have been less than 270 data fixes per annum. ˇ Incident report support for mishandled contract updates.

The definition of final deliverable for the maintenance is the successful completion of the incident report with resolution of data or user satisfaction. C.3.4 FA 4: Reports: Reports are required to be delivered both out of the system and relating to the system. Those reports are as follows: ˇ Incident Tracking by Sprint ˇ Feature Backlog

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 5 of 120

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Sprint Backlog Burndown Chart Velocity Chart Sandbox (Issues tracking) Annual Reports o TTPP Lump Sum Payment Report:  This includes lump sum payment activity by month. This is necessary as fiscal years overlap in calendar year tabulations. o TTPP Contracts Sold Report:  This includes the actual TTPP payments made to Producers and Quota Holders. o SII Annual Account Reconciliation Certification:  This report provides the Beginning Year Balance, Transactions During the Year, End of Year Balance, and the Projected FY Payment Amount Due. This is to be provided after the sales closing date each year, but no later than November 30th. o SII Audit:  This report includes contracts purchased from the previous year, the buyer and seller account names, purchased date, date sold (if applicable), purchased contract identifier. Five percent of the contracts to be reviewed for all quota holder and producer contracts held by financial institutions. A maximum of 100 contracts per account, however now fewer than five contracts per account in the event an account had less than 100 contracts. If an account holds less than five contracts, then 100% of the contracts are reviewed. Additionally, the two largest contracts from each account are selected for review. This report is used to verify the signature authority, discount rate, and proof of payment. This random sample selection pulls data from January 16 through November 1 (may be a day or two later if the sales closing date lands on the first Tuesday of November in an election year). o Payment to 1099 Form Reconciliation Report:  This would encompass all payments made for a given tax year and the corresponding tax form sent.  Any payments not receiving a form would need to have an explanation provided.  Would need to be ran anytime the process is ran to obtain data for the S, INT, or OID file.  It is crucial that the report is generated timely, prior to mailing any forms to the customer, and prior to the IRS January 31 deadline.  This should include all payments receiving a $0 Form for the current tax year.  This should include all payments not receiving a form due to the Contract Gross Value. o Quota Holder Contracts Paid after December 15:

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 6 of 120

ˇ ˇ ˇ

This report should encompass contracts receiving payments after December 15 until December 31 of current tax year.  Used to ensure all payments receive the appropriate 1099 form.  Generated the first business day of January of specified calendar year. o TIN Mismatch Report:  This report would need to be generated to provide information associated with the CP2100 Notice provided by the IRS.  Generated in fourth quarter of the current year once information is obtained from the IRS. o Backup Withholding Contract Report:  This report would need to be generated to provide information associated with TINs identified by the IRS for mandated backup withholding.  Generated in December of the current tax year. Ad Hoc Reports from the TAPS Data Repository Ad Hoc Reports for TTPP-1099 processing Status Reports (weekly and monthly including hours expended)



The definition of final deliverable for reports is on time delivery with current, accurate, and complete data with consistent display. C.3.5 FA 5: Enhancements: The contractor shall provide design and development support to all software enhancements that are resultant from: ˇ Implementation of modifications required to comply with directives received in Information Bulletins (IBs). ˇ Implementation of new/revised functionality based on user needs. ˇ Implementation of new/revised functionality required to comply with new legislation. Functionality support includes problems that require code fixes. The number varies according to the viability of the application and the attentiveness of the user. On average there have been less than 30 code fixes per annum. This support shall include analysis, design, programming, testing, implementation, and documentation support for the complete development effort: ˇ Analysis and design including documenting business and technical requirements and improvements to the systems ˇ Technical assistance ˇ Data conversion design and development ˇ Risk Analysis ˇ Technical Documentation ˇ Software Configuration Management

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 7 of 120

ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ

Research and development of application changes and enhancements Research and resolution of application problems during integration testing Construction Unit, automated, integration, and system testing Database management and design tasks supporting approved software changes Problem resolution in support of Acceptance testing Support for phased Production implementation (i.e. Pilots)

Enhanced software must maintain previously provided functionality including all interfaces and links to other applications. The initial enhancement tasks are as follows: ˇ Completion of code corrections for IRS 1099 forms reporting for: o Calculation corrections for OID Imputed Interest o Implementation of the Business Rules in the business layer instead of an SSIS package o Original and corrected file generation for IRS and Financial Inquires o Handling all scenarios currently handled manually as exceptions Completion of code enhancements for Contract Change for all reasons. o Necessary for information discovery for the ability to handle the numerous transfers of contracts due to the aging population of the contract holders. Contract family ancestry lookup and display. o Necessary for information discovery for all users in the TTPP user community. IRS Backup Withholding processing: o Mismatched Tax Identification Numbers. o Mandated IRS Backup Withholding.

ˇ

ˇ

ˇ

The definition of final deliverable for enhancement is completion of required documentation and installation of the software into the production environment. As such the following are anticipated in the delivery: System Enhancement Design and Documentation ˇ The Contractor shall provide detailed design documents and other required documents according to the SDLC and as directed by the COTR and Project Owner.

System Enhancement Code Applications According To Requirements and Standards ˇ The Contractor shall make necessary enhancement code and data changes, conduct unit testing, automated testing, integration and system testing in

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 8 of 120

accordance with FSA development standards as outlined in the SDLC. Where appropriate, additional standards may be identified. ˇ Modifications made to the Java application shall be accomplished in accordance with FSA and SFG coding standards. The Contractor shall be responsible for all work products identified in the SDLC and as approved by the COTR and Project Owner. The Contractor shall write or modify all programs using Java object oriented programming techniques as defined by J2EE standards. Code must be developed with an understanding of the interface requirements of this system.

ˇ

Conduct Unit, Automated, Integration, and System Testing ˇ The Contractor shall be responsible for unit, automated, integration, and system testing all changes or enhancements made to the applications. This is to include regression testing and creating automated tests to ensure other areas of the application are not affected by the changes. Test results shall be reviewed to determine that requirements have been satisfied and that no changes have been inadvertently made to existing functionality.

Provide Acceptance Test and Production Support ˇ Contractor support is needed to resolve production problems identified during the routine operation of the applications. These may include the need to address performance related incidents. The Contractor shall be responsible for the research and resolution of problems identified as a result of production processing or acceptance testing of the applications. Construct real world testing scenarios and conduct stress testing of applications and performance analysis of testing results. These problems may include improperly functioning code and/or incorrectly implemented requirements.

C.3.6 FA 6: Application Certification & Accreditation Task Orders may identify requirements for Contractor support of agency Certification & Accreditation documentation as required by the COTR. The contractor shall support and participate in all C&A processes and reviews, as required by the COTR. C.3.7 FA 7: Application Disaster Recovery The contractor may be required to identify requirements for contractor support of agency Application Disaster Recovery processes. The contractor may be required to develop, document, update, and maintain Disaster Recovery documentation as required by the COTR. The contractor may be required to support and participate in Disaster Recovery exercises and reviews, as required by the COTR.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 9 of 120

C.3.8 FA 8: Knowledge Transfer The contractor shall perform a technology knowledge transfer to Government Personnel of the application(s) and system(s) the contractors develop and/or modify in sufficient detail to enable Government personnel to maintain the system. As required, the Contractor shall provide ongoing communication and skills transfer to Government personnel (when providing the various levels of support described in the PWS) using methodologies, development and utility tools that include, but are not limited to, those listed at C.6.5.1. C.4 Type of Contract This will be an indefinite-quantity contract with Firm-Fixed-Price (FFP) and Labor-Hour (LH) deliverables. C.5 General Information

C.5.1 Program Management FSA shall provide a COTR to serve as the primary point of contact that will perform a number of important activities related to the contract including:




       



Provide authorization for all decisions relative to the project, including identification and assignment of FSA resources and to sign status reports and approve project changes. Provide the availability of necessary government staff resources, as well as Government Furnished Equipment, Government Furnished Property, and Government furnished information to the Contractor throughout the project's life. Bear responsibility for acceptance of deliverable and verify compliance of each deliverable within the five business days. Define, monitor and assess the activities and deliverables of FSA personnel. Provide clarification on business requirements and technical design issues. Review and approve FSA project plans and proposed technical solutions. Provide the Government technical resources necessary to install application software. Provide test data from existing legacy system test databases to test system interfaces. Ensure system availability schedules for all planned testing. Determine when and where meetings will be held. Meetings will be conducted at the Beacon Building, and the COTR will provide the meeting rooms, equipment, property, and materials necessary to conduct the meeting. The FSA COTR bears ultimate responsibility for all FSA aspects of performance.

C.5.2 Government Furnished Equipment

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 10 of 120

The government will supply all necessary space, furniture, equipment, software and appropriate security approvals necessary to access FSA networks and associated LAN drives at the government-designated work location of 6501 Beacon Drive, Kansas City, Missouri 64133, to effectively support the work undertaken in this contract. No travel is required. C.5.3 Technical Information The contractor will have access to the entire code base that comprises TAPS, TTPP/SII and TTAP applications. All code base components will be stored and versioned with the code repository, currently SubVersion, unless otherwise specified by the Government. Changes to legislation or regulations that introduce new requirements or change existing requirements to the system may occur after the contents of a release have been defined and approved. In this case, a special release can be defined. Based on artifacts delivered, the FSA Project Manager will have five business days to review, and specifically identify in writing any deficiencies. The Contractor will then have three business days to make alterations and re-submit artifacts for final signoff within two business days unless otherwise negotiated. The deliverable signoffs will be the basis for invoicing in tandem with the monthly status report and may not occur more frequently than once a month. Once business requirements have been accepted and approved, all modifications to those requirements will be subjected to a change control process for consideration and estimation. Should a contract modification be necessary, FSA's Acquisition Management Division (AMD) will need to administer the contract modification. The Contractor shall be compensated for its costs for the work completed up to the time that a Task is placed on-hold or cancelled. A contract modification may be required. Production support responsibilities shall be required for all Contractor implemented software. Under certain conditions, malfunctions can occur and the exact cause of the malfunction is difficult to determine. These situations are of particular concern in environments supported by multiple maintenance contractors. The contractor shall be responsible for determining and implementing appropriate solutions to these problems and documenting a plan of action submitted to the COTR. C.6 Compliance Standards and Technical Requirements

C.6.1 The Contractor shall follow the project management methodology of Rapid Development Methodology (RDM), an Agile-like methodology, and principles as outlined by the Project Management Institute (PMI). The Contractor shall provide project management deliverables as specified by the PMI and USDA Capital Planning and Investment Control (CPIC) for each year of the contract.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 11 of 120

C.6.2 The contractor shall use and comply with the FSA Software Development Life Cycle (SDLC) software development methodology. The SDLC defines system development activities and documents deliverables and artifacts that shall be performed throughout the phases of the project. All Contractor performance shall ensure that:  All software processes delivered shall operate in the USDA computing environment, comply with the Government's release management environment, and meet technical architecture requirements http://www.fsa.usda.gov/FSA/sdlcapp?area=home&subject=landing&topic=landing. The deliverables will be in accordance with FSA's System Development Life Cycle (SDLC) and other applicable documents as prescribed in Work Definitions. The contractor shall leverage all common business services that are in place to the extent possible; such as Eligibility, SCIMS, NPS, Obligations, CBS, CPF. The contractor shall be responsible for production support and respond to emergencies and system outages within one hour of notification. Contractor support will be required during FSA primary service hours Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Central Time. Normal tour of duty will be 40 hours per week. Technical support is provided by telephone, e-mail and in person depending on the problem. The Contractor shall ensure all processes fully comply with Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act, Information Technology Accessibility. (SDLC, The Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Section 508). The Systems shall enforce security to meet and comply with the FSA's implementation of the Federal Information Security Act (FISMA) standards http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/SMA/fisma/compliance.html. Tests and unit tests cover at least 80% of the code unless specified differently in the Task Order or approved by the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative. The Systems shall not compromise the security of external interfacing Systems at FSA. System applications must maintain previously provided functionality.

   



ˇ ˇ ˇ

C.6.3 Applicable Regulations and Documents: The following documents (versions current at time of award) are incorporated with the same force and effect as if provided in full text. Succeeding revisions may be substituted or incorporated as required. The Government will provide access to available documents and technical information as required and upon contractor request for the performance of this task order.     FSA Information Bulletins documents. Departmental Information Processing Standards (DIPS), manuals, circulars, and user requirements. FSA SDLC documentation, to include supplements. United States Department of Agriculture Office of Procurement and Property Management AGAR Advisory No. 81, Revision 03.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 12 of 120



Other policy, procedural, or technical documentation as the Government may deem necessary in order to conduct work under this contract.

C.6.4 Personal Identification Information (PII) Security Requirements The contractor shall immediately notify the Government, in writing, of all potential, and actual, breaches in security. All Personal Identification Information (PII) data, to include Social Security Numbers (SSNs) and Taxpayer Identification Numbers (TINs), shall not be exposed, released, disclosed or in any way compromised, intentionally or unintentionally, that may result in potential unauthorized access to PII information. In the event of a security breach in a production environment as the result of the introduction of a security vulnerability by the contractor as defined in the lists identified in C.5.7, the contractor shall be liable for the cost of mailing quota holders and producers notifications, and providing one year of credit and fraud monitoring for each impacted holder and each impacted producer. C.6.5 Experience and Expertise C.6.5.1 The contractor's proposal shall include the resumes of the proposed key staffing, documenting personnel expertise and experience available to support this requirement. Documented expertise and experience and the ability to demonstrate knowledge/skills/abilities with the items (i.e. technologies, organizations, systems, processes, etc.) listed below is highly desirable for the contractor staffing proposed to complete the task activities. While each individual contractor employee may not possess expertise and experience in each area identified in the subsequent paragraphs, the Government requires that the overall contractor staff possess the aggregate skills, expertise, and experience in each of the areas identified to successfully complete all task requirements. All contractor personnel shall be capable of working independently. The contractor shall adapt to changing technologies and standards leveraged by FSA/PSCAO over the course of the contract.      Working knowledge of MS SQL Server (latest three versions) and SQL Server Management Studio. Working knowledge of MS Office Suite 2007, especially Excel and Word. Working knowledge of Visio, and MS Project. Working knowledge of Eclipse, JUnit, Jasper, iReports, STRUTS, JBoss, Maven, and Apache. Experience using Agile or Agile-like methodology on an IT Project of related size and complexity.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 13 of 120

 C.6.5.2

Use of standard PC workstation tools.

Education   Bachelor's degree or higher in Information Systems, Computer Science, Engineering, Business, or related field. Qualifying experience may be substituted for education. The Project Leader(s) shall provide on-site support and is preferred to be Project Management Institute (PMI) certified and a certified SCRUM Master. If certified, the Contractor shall provide a copy of the certificate and its expiration date.

C.6.5.3

Experience Substituted for Formal Education  When experience is substituted for formal education, the time used to substitute for a formal education requirement can be used to meet a general or specialized experience requirement for the skill category. A guideline that will be used is 12 months specialized experience equals approximately 30 semester hours of full-time study in an accredited college. General Experience  Years used to satisfy the specialized experience requirements may also be used to satisfy the general experience requirements.

C.6.5.3.1

C.6.5.3.2

Specialized Experience  Minimum years experience required related to the particular job skill category and level. When specialized experience requirements include several different "years of experience" requirements, those years of experience may run concurrently. Personnel in any of the Labor Categories may be required to have specialized experience in either Business and Administrative Applications or Scientific Applications. In some instances, unique requirements may require a mix of personnel. Experience that meets the specialized experience requirements may be used to meet the general experience requirements.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 14 of 120

C.6.6 Key Personnel The Project Leader, Senior Systems Architect, and one Senior IT Specialist are designated as key personnel in this contract. The Contractor shall submit at least one résumé for each position designated as key personnel with their proposal. C.6.7 Minimum requirements for the Labor Categories are as follows:
ˇ

Project Leader o General Experience: Six (6) years of progressive IT software development and software management experience using structured system development methodologies, as well as systems life cycle management methodology. o Specialized Experience: Includes four (4) years of experience managing and controlling system development projects using systems life cycle management, system development methodologies, and structured analysis and design techniques. Project experience includes client-server, web-enabled, and standalone applications. At least one project of same size and complexity using Agile or an Agile-like methodology. o Education: Each Project Leader shall have a degree in Computer Science, Systems Engineering, or other related field with a minor or certification as a Project Leader. o Practical experience: The Project Leader is a senior manager responsible for coordinating the management of all work performed under a Task Order(s). The Project Leader shall act as a central contact point for the Task Order. The Project Leader is ultimately responsible for coordinating the effort of team members for the Task Order. o The Project Leader is responsible for:    Providing competent leadership and responsible program direction through successful performance of a variety of detailed, diverse elements of projects; Demonstrating competence using data from project management tools, in other words, PMBOK tools and theories and Agile methodologies, EVM Simultaneously planning and managing highly technical projects and directs completion of tasks within estimated time frame and budget constraints including using EVM; Organizing, directing, coordinating, assigning duties to subordinates, planning, and production of all the Task Order's project activities, work products, and resource needs;



Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 15 of 120



Communications, both written and oral, with all levels of management and Government representatives, including but not limited to, the Contracting Officer (CO), Contracting Officer's Representative (COR), and Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR); and Meeting with management officials regarding the status of specific Task Order activities and problems, issues or conflicts requiring resolution.



ˇ

Senior Systems Architect o General experience: Ten years or more of direct experience in hands-on system architecture role in architecting transformation of legacy system architecture to an object oriented web-based design methodology in a centralized computing environment, or architecting new functionality in an object oriented web-based enterprise methodology in a centralized computing environment. o Specific experience: Ten or more years of direct specific experience in largescale automated system design/development. Experience in developing ecommerce applications for a Web deployment. Experience in the definition of the "enterprise-level" use cases, experience with development of use cases and common business services to establish an enterprise wide application framework. Expertise in architecture of open, portable, and scalable web-based applications. Experience in mentoring to a web-based environment. Has accumulated extensive experience with database and development tools capacity, (both character based and GUI based tools). o Education: Each Senior Systems Architect shall have a degree in Computer Science, Systems Engineering, or other related field with certification in Systems Architecture.

o

Practical Experience: Provides technical and specialized Information Technology solutions to complex problems. Prepares elaborate analyses and studies. Prepares reports and gives presentations to high-level executives and managers. Participates in meetings, conferences, and workshops to advice users and management of transformation of legacy system architecture development and implementation issues. Works independently and/or as a member of a team.

ˇ

Senior IT Specialist o General Experience: Eight years of progressive experience in the field of Information Technology, including six years of specialized experience in numerous, highly specialized Information Technology disciplines involving a wide range of hardware/software solutions.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 16 of 120

o Specific Experience: Four years of General Experience is concentrated, hands-on experience in the specific discipline(s) of Information Technology identified in the examples below.                  Senior Applications Programmer Senior Business Process Analyst Senior Business Process Reengineering Specialist Senior Computer Security Specialist Senior Data Communications Specialist Senior Data Base Management Specialist Senior GIS Systems Engineer Senior Independent Verification and Validation Evaluator Senior Information Technology Systems Engineer Senior Testing Specialist Senior Security Engineer/Specialist Senior Software Systems Specialist Senior Subject Matter Expert Senior Systems Administrator Senior Systems Programmer Senior Systems Analyst Senior Cost Analyst

o Education: Each Senior IT Specialist shall have a degree in Computer Science, Systems Engineering. o Practical experience: Has experience in providing highly technical and specialized guidance, and solutions to complex Information Technology problems. Has performed elaborate analyses and studies. Has recent and relevant experience in preparing reports and presentations in support of enterprise-wide solutions and project. Works independently and/or as a member of a team.
ˇ

IT Specialist o General Experience: Six years of progressive experience in the field of Information Technology, including four years of specialized experience in numerous highly specialized Information Technology disciplines involving a wide range of hardware/software solutions. o Specific Experience: Three years of General Experience is concentrated hands-on experience in the specific discipline(s) of Information Technology. o Education: Each IT Specialist shall have a degree in Computer Science, Systems Engineering, or other related field.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 17 of 120

o Practical experience: Experience in providing highly technical and specialized solutions to complex Information Technology problems. Has prepared analyses and studies at the project level. Works independently or as a member of a team.
ˇ

Junior IT Specialist o General Experience: Three years of progressive experience in the field of Information Technology, including one year of specialized experience in highly specialized Information Technology discipline(s) involving a range of hardware/software solutions. o Education: Each IT Specialist shall have a degree in Computer Science, Systems Engineering, or other related field. o Specific Experience: At least two years of General Experience is concentrated hands-on experience in the specific discipline(s) of Information Technology. o Practical experience: Has provided technical and specialized solutions to complex Information Technology problems. Has performed analyses and studies, and prepared detailed reports. Works independently or as a member of a team.

C.6.8 Performance Work is to be accomplished through the Farm Service Agency's Acquisition Management Division, through its contract with the selected contractor. Certification by the Government of satisfactory services provided is contingent upon the contractor performing in accordance with the terms and conditions of the referenced contract, this document, the approved technical and cost quotes, and all amendments. The client's representative, FSA's representatives, and the contractor's representative(s) shall meet when deemed necessary at the client's request. The client representative, the FSA representatives, and the contractor's representative may meet at the place determined by the client representative and FSA representatives. C.6.9 Personnel Retention The Contractor shall make every effort to retain personnel in order to ensure continuity until contract completion. If it should become necessary to substitute or replace key personnel, the Contractor shall immediately notify the COTR in writing of any potential vacancies and shall submit the resume(s) of replacement key personnel within 14 calendar days of the notification. The Contractor shall submit the resume(s) of all potential key personnel selected to perform under this contract to the COTR through ITSS for Government review and acceptance/rejection. Upon Government acceptance of a key personnel resume(s), the candidate shall be available to begin performance within 14 calendar days. The contractor shall ensure continuity of operations during periods of personnel turnover and long-term absences. Long-term absences are considered those longer than one week in duration.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 18 of 120

C.6.10 The Contractor shall work directly with Government personnel and possible contractor personnel from other vendors in review and implementation of specified task assignment requests. C.7 Deliverables

C.7.1 Fixed Price C. 7.1.1 Conduct a Startup Briefing If requested. C. 7.1.2 Project Management For each Task Order, the Contractor shall prepare a Project Plan (i.e., work breakdown structure, project resource assignments, resource hours, projected task completion dates for each resource assigned, overall completion date for delivery to Acceptance Testing, and project assumptions), Product/Backlog, Burndown Chart, and a Velocity Report. All project plans will be maintained on a SharePoint site and retained in the document repository, currently SubVersion. If requested. C. 7.1.3 Reporting The definition of final deliverable for reports is on time delivery with current, accurate, and complete data with consistent display. C.7.1.4 Production Maintenance Support The definition of final deliverable for the maintenance is the successful completion of the incident report with resolution of data or user satisfaction. C.7.2 Labor-hour C. 7.2.1 Enhancements The definition of final deliverable for enhancement is completion of required documentation and installation of the software into the production environment. C. 7.3 Deliverables will be identified in each Task Order.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 19 of 120

C. 7.4

Contractor Submission. The contractor shall provide hard copy deliverables as required per the Government's request. All deliverables shall be produced using recommended software tools/versions as approved by the Government. All reports shall be accomplished utilizing the MS Office Software Suite to include MS Project as required.

C. 7.5

Source Code, Data Files and Job Control Language This shall be retained in the Government's Source Code Repository, currently SubVersion.

C. 7.6

Government Review. Government personnel will have 10 workdays to review deliverables (to include resubmissions) and provide written acceptance/rejection. The COTR will notify the contractor of deliverable acceptance or provide comments in writing. The contractor shall incorporate Government comments, or provide rationale for not doing so within 5 days of receipt of comments. Government acceptance of the final deliverable will be based on resolution of Government comments or acceptance of rationale for noninclusion. Additional changes volunteered by the contractor will be considered a resubmission of the deliverable.

C. 7.7

Deliverable and Data Rights. All test materials, documents, notes, records, software tools acquired, and/or software modified or produced by the contractor under the PWS shall become the property of the U.S. Government, which shall have unlimited rights to all materials and determine the scope of publication and distribution. The contractor shall be required to deliver electronic copies of all documents, notes, records and software to the Government quarterly and upon termination of the contract services or expiration of the contract period.

C. 7.8

Deliverables, Due Dates, and Performance Requirements Summary Matrix A deliverable schedule will be identified for each Task Order. The Performance Requirements Summary Matrix includes performance standards. The Government will perform surveillance to determine if the contractor meets or does not meet these standards. The Government will use the following standards to determine contractor performance and will compare contractor performance to the Acceptable Quality Level (AQL).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 20 of 120

Work Item
System Functionality Support; and Production Maintenance Support System Enhancement

Indicator
Incident Report

Standard
Incident report closed successfully

Acceptable Response Time
24 hours from approval of resolution approved by Business or Project Owner.

Acceptable Quality Level
Data Fixed.

Method of Surveillance
Incident Report reviewed by COTR.

Incentive / Disincentive
The Contractor shall be incentivized by exercise of the option period and positive past performance. If the Contractor fails to meet the Acceptable Quality Level and Acceptable Response Time more than two times in a month, then 1% of the monthly invoice will be assessed as a disincentive. If Acceptable Quality Level or Acceptable Response Time is not achieved for two months, then contract performance may be deemed unacceptable.

1) System interfaces with other USDA systems 2) Code Deployed to Production Environment

TCO certification

1) 24 hours to TCO certification. 2) Agreed upon time frame not to exceed 45 days to Production deployment.

Reporting

1) Status Reports Delivered (weekly and monthly including hours used). 2) Program Management Reports to include Feature and Sprint Backlog. 3) Incident Tracking Reports by Sprint. 4) Annual Reports. 5) Ad Hoc Reports.

Reports Generated

1) Timely Delivery: Weekly- due 1 days after the end of the preceding week; Monthly- due 5 days after the end of the preceding month. 2) Updated Daily and delivered during the Sprint meeting. 3) Updated Daily and delivered during the Sprint meeting. 4) Delivered 1 week after receipt of the request. 5) Delivered within 24 hours of request.

1) 99.99% uptime based upon coding issues and not equipment failure or malfunction. 2) Code Deployed with zero (0) additional defects. Timely, current, accurate, and complete reports delivered within the acceptable response time.

1) Review by COTR. 2) Defect Report reviewed by COTR

COTR will review reports produced by the Contractor for correctness, clarity, consistency, completeness, and timeliness.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 21 of 120

C.8

Abbreviations ASG ­ Application Support Group CCC ­ Commodity Credit Corporation CGV ­ Contract Gross Value COTR ­ Contracting Officers Technical Representative CPIC ­ Capital Planning and Investment Control FETRA ­ Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act FSA ­ Farm Service Agency IBs ­ Information Bulletins IRS ­ Internal Revenue Service ITSD ­ Information Technology Services Division OID ­ Original Issue Discount PMI ­ Project Management Institute PWS ­ Performance Work Statement RDM ­ Rapid Development Methodology S, INT, or OID file ­ A file created to specific requirements for layout and data to provide the information necessary to create the applicable IRS 1099 forms. SDLC ­ FSA System Development Life Cycle SII ­ Successor-In-Interest SSIS ­ SQL Server Integration Services TAPS ­ Tobacco Assessment and Payment Systems TTAP ­ Tobacco Transition Assessment Project TTPP ­ Tobacco Transition Payment Program USDA ­ United States Department of Agriculture

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 22 of 120

SECTION D ­ PACKAGING AND MARKING D. 1 AGAR 452.247-71 - Marking Deliverables. (FEB 1988)

(a) The FSA contract/order number shall be placed on or adjacent to all exterior mailing or shipping labels of deliverable items called for by the contract. (b) Ship to/Mark for: Regular mail ­ Paula M Steen USDA ­ FSA Beacon Facility - Mail Stop 8148 P.O. Box 419205 Kansas City, MO 64141-6205 For FedEx, UPS or DSL ­ Paula M Steen USDA ­ FSA Beacon Facility - Mail Stop 8148 9240 Troost Ave Kansas City, MO 64131-3055 Email: paula.steen@kcc.usda.gov Telephone Number: (816) 926-1380 (End of Clause) D. 2 AGAR 452.247-72 - Packing for Domestic Shipment. (FEB 1988)

Material shall be packed for shipment in such a manner that will insure acceptance by common carriers and safe delivery at destination. Containers and closures shall comply with the Interstate Commerce Commission regulations, Uniform Freight Classification Rules, or regulations of other carriers as applicable to the mode of transportation. (End of Clause)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 23 of 120

SECTION E ­ INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE E. 1 52.252-2 - Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text may be accessed electronically at this/ these address(es): https://www.acquisition.gov/FAR/ or, www.usda.gov/procurement/policy/agar.html E.2 AGAR 452.246-70 - Inspection and Acceptance. (FEB 1988)

(a) The Contracting Officer or the Contracting Officer's duly authorized representative may inspect and accept the supplies and/or services to be provided under this contract. (b) Inspection and Acceptance will be performed at: Farm Service Agency 6501 Beacon Drive Kansas City, Missouri 64133 Paula Steen Email: paula.steen@kcc.usda.gov Phone: (816) 926-1380 (c) The COTR has limited authority. The COTR is authorized to (1) review and approve travel authorizations necessary for performance of services, (2) inspect deliverables, (3) accept deliverables, (4) review and approve request for payment (invoices), and (5) coordinate services with contractor. The COTR has no authority to change or amend the terms and conditions set forth in the Contract. (End of clause) E.3 Inspection and Acceptance by the Government

The Government will verify that all deliverables cited within this Contract fulfill the requirement and standards stated in this Contract. E.3.1 Responsibility for the Inspection and Acceptance Inspection and acceptance of all items and services under this Contract will be accomplished by the Government Contracting Officer's Technical Representatives (COTR's). The COTR will inspect, and be responsible for, the review and acceptance of all deliverables under this Contract prior to its acceptance by the Government Contracting Officer/Contract Specialist. Acceptance will be performed by the COTR, or a designated representative, at the location(s) cited in Section E.2 of this contract. E.3.2 Quality Assurance

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 24 of 120

The Government has established and will maintain a quality assurance program in accordance with FAR 52.212-4 -- Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items (June 2010). The Government will evaluate the Contractor's performance under this contract for those tasks listed in the contracts' PWS. The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) will follow the methods of surveillance specified in the contract. Any action taken by the Contracting Officer as a result of surveillance will be in accordance with the terms of this contract. The Government's Performance Requirements Summary Matrix is not a substitute for Quality Control by the Contractor. The Government reserves the right to inspect any and all work under the contract. If the corrective/preventive actions are not met the Contractor shall be relieved of full performance of the service and be terminated for cause based on inadequate performance of the service. The Government's Performance Requirements Summary Matrix will be based off the requirements of the Performance Work Statement (PWS) of this contract. The COTR will review, for completeness, preliminary or draft documentation that the Contractor submits, and may return it to the Contractor for correction. Absence of any comments by the COTR will not relieve the Contractor of the responsibility for complying with the requirements of this work statement. Final approval and acceptance of documentation required herein shall be by letter of approval and acceptance by COTR. The Contractor shall not construe any letter of acknowledgment of receipt material as a waiver of review, or as an acknowledgment that the material is in conformance with this work statement. Any approval given during preparation of the documentation, or approval for shipment shall not guarantee the final acceptance of the completed documentation.

E.3.3 Administrative Considerations
E.3.3.1 Correspondence

To promote timely and effective administration, correspondence shall be subject to the following procedures: A. Technical correspondence (where technical issues relating to compliance with the requirements herein) shall be addressed to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) with an information copy to the Contracting Officer (CO) and the Contract Specialist (CS).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 25 of 120

SECTION F ­ DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE F.1 AGAR 452.211-74 ­ Period of Performance (FEB 1988) The anticipated Base Period of performance for this contract will be as follows: Anticipated Base Period: August 1, 2011 through July 31, 2012

Option Periods may be exercised based upon the continuing need, past performance, fund availability and at the Government's discretion; and will be as follows: Anticipated Option Period One: Anticipated Option Period Two: Anticipated Option Period Three: August 1, 2012 through July 31, 2013 August 1, 2013 through July 31, 2014 August 1, 2014 through July 31, 2015

(End of Clause) F.2 Place(s) of Performance The place of performance shall be in Government facilities at 6501 Beacon Drive, Kansas City, Missouri 64133. F.3 Performance of Travel Travel is not anticipated for this contract. F.4 Hours of Performance Normal duty hours at the FSA facility are Monday through Friday from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Central Time. The normal individual tour of duty shall be 40 hours per week. Outside normal duty hour support shall be coordinated with the Contractor as far in advance as is possible and negotiated and approved by the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 26 of 120

SECTION G ­ CONTRACT ADMINISTRATION DATA G.1 Contracting Officer's Authority

The Contracting Officer is the only person authorized to approve changes in any of the requirements under this contract and/or any Delivery/Task Order, and notwithstanding any clause contained elsewhere in this contract, the said authority remains solely with the Contracting Officer. In the event the Contractor effects any changes to the direction of any person other than the Contracting Officer, the changes will be considered to have been made without authority and no adjustments will be made in the contract prices to cover any increases in charges incurred as a result thereof. The Contractor shall submit any request for modification for this contract, in writing to the Contracting Officer with a copy of the request to the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR). G.2 Contract Administration

The Procuring Contracting Officer responsible for administering this contract is: Billy Rowland, Contracting Officer Telephone: (202) 720-9356 FAX: (202) 690-0689 E-mail: billy.rowland@wdc..usda.gov When using regular mail, use the following address: USDA/FSA/AMD Mail Stop 0567 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20520 When using express mail or hand delivering to the Contracting Officer, use the following address: USDA/FSA/AMD 355 E ST, SW 10TH FLOOR WASHINGTON, DC 20024 The point of contact for routine contract support, and in the absence of the Contracting Officer is: Jeffrey McRae, Contractor Support Telephone: (202) 690-4030 Fax: (202) 690-3320

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 27 of 120

Jeffrey.Mcrae@wdc.usda.gov E-mail: G.3 Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) The Contracting Officer's Technical Representative appointed for this contract, and the address and contact information for the same is: Paula M Steen USDA ­ FSA 6501 Beacon Drive Kansas City, Missouri 64133 Mailing Address: USDA ­ FSA Beacon Facility - Mail Stop 8148 P.O. Box 419205 Kansas City, MO 64141-6205 paula.steen@kcc.usda.gov (816) 926-1380

Email: Phone:

CAUTION: Offerors shall not make any type of contact (oral or written) with COTR's concerning this RFP prior to contract award; any contact may be grounds for a determination for offeror(s) inability to respond to the RFP. The COTR shall be primarily responsible for, but not necessarily limited to, the following: 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. Monitor the Contractor's performance under the contract Be the single coordinating point of contact with the Contractor, other than the Contracting Officer. Provide clarification, interpretation, and inquiry assistance to the Contractor on technical matters. Monitor the quality of the Contractor's performance and deliverables. Review, and approve or disapprove, invoices submitted by the Contractor. Furnish the Contracting Office with copies of all pertinent reports and correspondence as appropriate.

The COTR is not empowered to make any contractual commitments or to authorize any contractual changes on the Government's behalf. Any changes that the contractor deems may affect contract price, or conditions must be referred to the Contracting Officer for review, action and or approval/disapproval. G.4 Invoices

The Contractor shall submit invoices to the CO and the COTR for review and payment recommendation in accordance with the delivery schedule. The Contractor shall provide an original and one copy of all invoices. Invoices shall be emailed or mailed to the Contracting

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 28 of 120

Officer and the COTR at the addresses provided in the Contract. The COTR is responsible for review and recommending approval/disapproval of invoices. If disapproved, the COTR shall notify the Contracting Officer and the Contractor. The Contractor shall invoice no more than once a month to the address provided in the contract. In addition to the information required by the Prompt Payment Act, at a minimum the following information must also be included on the invoice: 1. Contract Number 2. Contractor, Address, Point of Contact, and Telephone Number 3. Period of Performance associated with the Invoice 4. Invoice Number and date of invoice 5. A description of the deliverables per the deliverables and pricing schedules for each Contract Line Item Number (CLIN) being invoiced. 6. Any other information deemed necessary and appropriate to justify payment. 7. Failure to provide the above information (or adequately justify payment request) is grounds for disapproval of invoice.

G.5

452.219-70 SIZE STANDARD AND NAICS CODE INFORMATION (SEP 2001)

The North American Industrial Classification System Code(s) and business size standard(s) describing the products and/or services to be acquired under this solicitation are listed below: Contract line item(s): ALL -- NAICS Code 541511 ­ Custom Computer Programming Services -- Size Standard $25 million (End of provision) G.6 Contract Closeout Procedures

It is the Government's intent to perform close-out procedures at the end of the Contract. The Contractor agrees to perform those internal functions necessary to support this process in a timely manner. Contract close-out will occur as soon as possible after end of contract period of performance.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 29 of 120

SECTION H - SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS H.1 Government Furnished Facilities, Property, Building Services, Materials and Information The Government shall furnish space and building services. Facilities to be furnished to the Contractor under this contract are currently located in a Government leased building. Government facilities have been inspected for compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA). No hazards have been identified for which work-rounds have been established. Should a hazard be subsequently identified, the Government will correct OSHA hazards according to Government developed and approved plans of abatement taking into account safety and health priorities. A higher priority for correction will not be assigned to the facilities provided hereunder merely because of this contracting initiative. The fact that no such conditions have been identified does not warrant or guarantee that no possible hazard exists, or that work-around procedures will not be necessary. Compliance with the OSHA and other applicable laws and regulations for the protection of employees is exclusively the obligation of the contractor. No alterations to the facilities shall be made without specific written permission from the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall return the facilities to the Government in the same condition as received, fair wear and tear and approved modifications excepted. These facilities shall only be used in performance of this contract. H.1.2 Government Furnished Equipment The Government shall furnish equipment to include desks, chairs, computer workstations, landline telephones, as well as access to fax, printers and copiers, as required for performance of this contract. The Contractor and the COTR shall jointly determine the working order and condition of all equipment and document their findings to the CO. In the event of disagreement between the Contractor and the Government representative on the working order and condition of equipment, the disagreement shall be treated as a dispute under the contract clause entitled "Disputes." Obtaining Replacement of Government-Furnished Equipment, the Contractor shall submit requests for replacement of Government furnished equipment to the COTR for processing. Such requests shall specify the reason for the replacement request. H.1.3 Contractor Furnished Property/Items If applicable, Contractor furnished property required for the performance of this contract will be provided per individual Task Order. H.2 AGAR 452.224-70 ­ Confidentiality of Information (FEB 1988)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 30 of 120

(a) Confidential information, as used in this clause, means ­ (1) Information or data of a personal nature, proprietary about an individual or (2) information or data submitted by or pertaining to an organization. (b) In addition to the types of confidential information described in (a)(1) and (2) above, information which might require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure may derive from studies or research, during which public disclosure of primarily invalidated findings could create an erroneous conclusion which might threaten public health or safety if acted upon. (c) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information and/or categories of information which the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which is confidential. Similarly, the contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during the performance of the contract. Failure to agree will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause. (d) If it is established that information to be utilized under this contract is subject to the Privacy Act, the Contractor will follow the rules and procedures of disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and implementing regulations and policies, with respect to systems of records determined to be subject to the Privacy Act. (e) Confidential information, as defined in (a)(1) and (2) above, shall not be disclosed without the prior written consent of the individual, institution or organization. (f) Written advance notice of at least 45 days will be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's intent to release findings of studies or research, which have the possibility of adverse effects on the public or the Federal agency, as described in (b) above. If the Contracting Officer does not pose any objections in writing within the 45 day period, the contractor may proceed with disclosure. Disagreements not resolved by the Contractor and Contracting Officer will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause. (g) Whenever the Contractor is uncertain with regard to the proper handling of material under the contract, or if the material in question is subject to the Privacy Act or is confidential information subject to the provisions of this clause, the Contractor shall obtain a written determination from the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication. (h) The provisions of paragraph (e) of this clause shall not apply when the information is subject to conflicting or overlapping provisions in other Federal, State or local laws. H.3 Security

H.3.1 HSPD-12 Compliance

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 31 of 120

As part of the Homeland Security Presidential Directive (HSPD) 12, Personal Identity Verification (PIV) 1, USDA/FSA implemented Identity Proofing for all Federal and vendors workers. Each employee must provide identity documentation, as set forth in the Form I-9, and the validity of the documentation is certified by at least three other checks incorporated into the ID-Proofing process. The Contractor shall be responsible for ensuring compliance by its employees for any annual security training and reporting requirements of GSA, National Institute of Standard and Technology (NIST), USDA and HSPD-12. In addition, the following clauses will apply concerning HSPD-12 compliance: FAR 52.204-9 -- Personal Identity Verification of Contractor Personnel (Jan 2011) (a) The Contractor shall comply with agency personal identity verification procedures identified in the contract that implement Homeland Security Presidential Directive-12 (HSPD-12), Office of Management and Budget (OMB) guidance M-05-24, and Federal Information Processing Standards Publication (FIPS PUB) Number 201. (b) The Contractor shall account for all forms of Government-provided identification issued to the Contractor employees in connection with performance under this contract. The Contractor shall return such identification to the issuing agency at the earliest of any of the following, unless otherwise determined by the Government; (1) When no longer needed for contract performance. (2) Upon completion of the Contractor employee's employment. (3) Upon contract completion or termination. (c) The Contracting Officer may delay final payment under a contract if the Contractor fails to comply with these requirements. (d) The Contractor shall insert the substance of clause, including this paragraph (d), in all subcontracts when the subcontractor's employees are required to have routine physical access to a Federally-controlled facility and/or routine access to a Federally-controlled information system. It shall be the responsibility of the prime Contractor to return such identification to the issuing agency in accordance with the terms set forth in paragraph (b) of this section, unless otherwise approved in writing by the Contracting Officer. (End of Clause) H.3.2 Personnel Security Requirements: The contractor's personnel are required to meet the following criteria: 1. Personnel Security Clause - Public Trust Designations

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 32 of 120

The regulatory authorities of the personnel security and suitability program are found on Executive Order 10450, Executive Order 12968, OMB Circular No. OMB A-130 Management of Federal Information Resources, P.L. 100-235 (Public Law) The Computer Security Act of 1987 and Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR), Parts 731, 732 and 736. Contractor personnel are subject to the same personnel security and suitability requirements as FSA/CCC/FAS employees. All contractor personnel must complete FSA's IT security training provided on the web. Contractor personnel are considered Federal employees for purposes of applying provisions of the Privacy Act of 1974, Tax Reform Act of 1976, and FSA and USDA regulations on the confidentiality and disclosure and protection of information entrusted to them. Signed individual confidentiality agreements and contractor employee background checks must be submitted timely, as agreed between the contractor and FSA. The provisions of Executive Order 10450, Executive Order 12968, and Title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations CFR, parts 731, 732, 736 require that: ˇ "Every competitive, excepted, and contractor position must be designated at a level of sensitivity that is commensurate with the responsibilities and other attributes (policy making, fiduciary, public contact or public trust) of the position as they relate to the efficiency of the services." "All Federal service and contractor employees must be designated, in terms of their national security sensitivity, to assure appropriate screening. The required background investigation is conducted to provide a basis of ensuring that the employment of an individual is clearly consistent with the interests of the national security."

ˇ

The contractor shall be required to provide information necessary for such background checks and shall agree to abide by FSA/CCC/FAS and USDA personnel security and suitability determinations. The contractor shall provide information about the current security clearances for all staff assigned to work on the contract. All positions in this contract are designated as high risk computer-related positions; consequently, all contractor personnel performing under this contract shall require a security investigation. Contractor personnel shall initiate and apply for a background investigation to satisfy the investigative requirements for contractor employees designated as Public Trust positions at the high and moderate risk levels. The background investigation consists of fingerprint classification and search of the following investigative source checks: ˇ ˇ ˇ Security/Suitability Investigations Index and related previous Office of Personnel Management Files. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) fingerprint classification and name check of FBI identification files. FBI Information Resource Management files and name check at other than FBI

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 33 of 120

headquarters. ˇ ˇ Defense Clearance and Investigation Index (DCII) and any Department of Defense file referenced in DCII. Credit Check.

The contractor must have each contractor employee complete and submit the following appropriate forms for the background investigations: ˇ ˇ ˇ Standard Form 85 Questionnaire for Non-Sensitive Positions. Office of Personnel Management Optional Form 306, Declaration for Federal Employment (items 1, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15, and 16a). The Fair Credit Reporting Act authorization form.

The contractor must provide a cover letter listing the name of employees whose forms are attached along with the contract number, and the contractor's contact name and telephone number. The cover letter and attached completed forms must be submitted to the CO no later than five working days after award of the contract. For replacement personnel, the requirement is to submit the completed forms within five working days for selection. The contractor should select personnel to work on the contract who meet the Government's suitability requirements in order to reduce the likelihood that employee(s) will be found unsuitable and not allowed to work on this contract, possibly disrupting performance on the contract. Contractors may choose to perform similar background checks to those listed herein on employee(s) being proposed to work in designated positions under the contract. Before you perform any checks it is recommended that you contact the CO. Some of the Government's unsuitability factors are: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Delinquency or misconduct in prior employment; criminal, dishonest, infamous, or notoriously disgraceful conduct; intentional false statement, deception, or fraud on application forms; habitual use of intoxicating beverages to excess; abuse of narcotics, drugs, or other controlled substances; and reasonable doubt as to loyalty of the person involved to the Government of the United States.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 34 of 120

Contractor employees that fall into the above unsuitability factors are not eligible to work on this contract. Other suitability factors include: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ The classification and type of position for which the person is applying or in which the person is employed; the nature and seriousness of the conduct; when the conduct occurred; the applicant's age and employee's age at the time of conduct; the circumstances surrounding the misconduct; contributing social and environmental conditions; and the absence and presence of rehabilitation or efforts to obtain rehabilitation.

Current, complete, and accurate information is extremely important to the overall investigative process. Certain personnel may be periodically investigated. The contractor shall notify the CO if any of the contractor employees have completed a background investigation and have a valid security clearance in place, negating the need for another background investigation. The results of the preliminary check will also be shared with appropriate Protective Security staff for facility access purposes. When investigative results reflect adverse information, the designated FSA personnel will contact the subject for resolution. FSA will notify the contractor, investigation subject, CO and COTR if a subject cannot meet the requirements necessary for a favorable security/suitability decision, and therefore, may not be allowed to work on the contract. Once the contractor is notified, the personnel must be immediately removed from the contract. The contractor must confirm to the Government, in writing, the date of the removal of the contractor's personnel from the audit. Removal of contractor personnel may require that a replacement(s) be named and the appropriate security forms completed and clearance obtained in order that contract performance will not be adversely impacted. The contractor should contact the CO if there are any contract performance issues related to the removal. The denial resulting from the pre-screening or removal of an individual determined unsuitable or unfit does not give rise to an equitable adjustment to the contract.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 35 of 120

In the event that contractor personnel performing on this contract either leave the company or are removed from the project, or are arrested or charged with a crime during the term of this contract, the contractor shall notify the designated FSA personnel, the COTR, and the CO immediately. In the notification, the contractor must provide the contractor personnel name(s), Social Security Number, the type of charge(s), the court date, and, if available, the disposition of the charge(s). Contractor personnel are responsible for the security of any FSA/CCC/FAS information; physical resources or other information entrusted to them, and agree to provide protection in accordance with FSA established requirements. 2. Removal from Duty Clause The Government may request that the contractor immediately remove any contractor employee(s) from working on the contract should the Government determine that individuals are unfit to perform the contract. The contractor must comply with these requests. The Government's determination of unfit may be made from, but not limited to, incidents involving the misconduct or delinquency as set forth below. a) Violation of Rules and Regulations Governing Public Buildings and Grounds, 41 Code of Federal Regulations 101-20.3. b) Neglect of duty, including sleeping while on duty, unreasonable delays, or failure to carry out assigned Delivery/Tasks, conducting personal affairs during official time, and refusing to cooperate in upholding the integrity of FSA. c) Falsification or unlawful concealment, removal, mutilation, or destruction of any official documents or records, or concealment of material facts by willful omission from official documents and records. d) Disorderly conduct, use of abusive or offensive language, quarreling, intimidation by words or actions or fighting. Also, participating in disruptive activities that interfere with the normal and efficient operation of the Government. e) Theft, vandalism, immoral conduct, or any other criminal actions. f) Selling, consuming, possession of, or being under the influence of intoxicants, drugs, or substances, which produce similar effects. g) Improper use of official authority or credentials. h) Unauthorized use of communications equipment or Government property. i) Misuse of equipment used in the performance of this contract. j) Unauthorized access to employee's personal property.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 36 of 120

k) Violation of security procedures and regulations. l) Prior determination by FSA or other Federal agency that a contractor's employee was unsuitable. m) Violation of the Privacy Act of 1974, the Computer Fraud and Abuse Act of 1986, and Taxpayer Browsing Protection Act of 1997. n) Unauthorized access to or disclosure of agency programmatic or sensitive information, or IRS Tax Return information. o) Unauthorized access to areas not required for the performance of the contract. p) Unauthorized access to an agency Automated Information System. q) Unauthorized access of information for personal gain (including, but not limited to monetary gain) or with malicious intent. H.3.3 Contractor Background Investigation, Site Badge, and LincPass Requirements Kansas City, Missouri-- Beacon Facility. All entities must adhere to the April 2010 Interagency Security Committee (ISC) Standards and pursuant to the authority of the ISC contained in Executive Order 12977, October 19, 1995, "Interagency Security Committee", as amended by Executive Order 13286, March 5, 2003. The Building Security Committee has established security policies that are controlled and monitored by the Emergency Preparedness Division (EPD) in cooperation with the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) Federal Protective Service (FPS). All contractor applicants must undergo, or have on file, a current favorably adjudicated background investigation sufficient for the position. Upon review of the applicant's security questionnaire and fingerprint results, a Favorable Pre-Employment decision will permit the applicant to have site access for work pending a favorable, final suitability determination. A Request for Background Investigation form shall be submitted to EPD, through the Contracting Officer's Technical Representative (COTR) to initiate the process. EPD will contact the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) to determine if a background investigation is required. If required, EPD will invite the contractor applicant into OPM's electronic Questionnaires Investigation Processing web-based program (e-QIP) via e-mail (a valid e-mail address is required for this process). EPD will notify the Sponsor/COTR to coordinate and schedule the contractor applicant's fingerprint appointment, or ensure the applicant submits 2 (two) original signed hardcopy fingerprint cards. The applicant will provide the e-QIP printed release form and the certification statement, with original signature, to EPD when arriving for fingerprinting, or when submitting the hardcopy fingerprint cards.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 37 of 120

The contractor applicant's background investigation materials consist of a number of printed forms (At a minimum, the investigative forms required include an OF-306 ­ Declaration for Federal Employment, and Certification and Release Forms from eQIP. Additional forms may be required depending on the level of background investigation.) that are followed up by completion of their entries into e-QIP. The printed forms from e-QIP are provided to EPD by the applicant. KC - The site badge and LincPasses are issued in Room 111A, Monday through Thursday. Sponsor/COTR approved forms AD-1197 ­ Request for USDA Identification Badge and KC364 ­ Building Security Card Access Request Form are required. Contractor Company completed I-9 ­ Employment Eligibility Verification is also required. Site badges not used for 21 consecutive days will be automatically deactivated. All site badges and LincPass badges must be returned to EPD when the contractor is no longer employed. The badges are property of the U.S. Government. Final contract payment may be withheld until all cards have been returned or transferred to a new contract. H.4 Key Personnel

H.4.1 The contractor must identify in the technical proposal the key personnel at the technical expertise level (i.e. statistician, information systems experts, etc.) and senior level management and above assigned to the contract, as well as the total number of personnel assigned to the contract, and the position of each such person. All proposed successor or alternate personnel must currently hold the same or higher position in the firm with regard to the position for which they are being retained under this contract. H.4.2 AGAR 452.237-74 - Key Personnel (FEB 1988) (a) The Contractor shall assign to this contract the following key personnel: 1. Project Leader 2. Senior Systems Architect 3. one Senior IT Specialist Additional Key Personnel may be identified per individual Task Order. (b) During the first ninety (90) days of performance, the Contractor shall make no substitutions of key personnel unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death, or termination of employment. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 15 calendar days after the occurrence of any of these events and provide the information required by paragraph (c) below. After the initial 90-day period, the Contractor shall submit the information required by paragraph (c) to the Contracting Officer at least 15 days prior to making any permanent substitutions. (c) The Contractor shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions, complete resumes for the proposed substitutes, and any additional information requested by the Contracting Officer. Proposed substitutes should have comparable

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 38 of 120

qualifications to those of the persons being replaced. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor within 15 calendar days after receipt of all required information of the decision on substitutions. The contract will be modified to reflect any approved changes of key personnel. (End of Clause) H.5 Organizational Conflict of Interest

H.5.1 Purpose The primary purpose of this clause is to aid in ensuring that the offeror selected for contract award (1) does not obtain any unfair competitive advantage over other parties by virtue of prior performance of this contract and (2) that the selection of the contractor is not biased because of its current and planned interest (financial, contractual, or otherwise) which relates to the work under this contract. In addition, offerors should review Federal Acquisition Regulation Subpart 9.5. H.5.2 Scope The restrictions described herein shall apply to performance and/or participation by the contractor and any of its affiliate organizations or their successors in interest (hereinafter collectively referred to as the "contractor") in the activities covered by this clause as a prime contractor, subcontractor, co-sponsor, joint venture, and consultant or in any similar capacity. (a) Advisory, consulting, analytical, evaluation or study work, including the preparation of statements of work and specifications. 1. If the contractor performs advisory, consulting, analytical, evaluation study, or similar work under this contract, it shall be ineligible thereafter for a period of 3 years to participate in any capacity in Government contractual efforts (solicited or unsolicited) which stem directly from such work, and the contractor agrees not to perform similar work for prospective offerors with respect to any such contractual efforts. Furthermore, unless so directed in writing by the CO, the contractor shall not perform any such work under this contract on any of its products or services, or the products or services of another firm for which the contractor performs similar work. 2. If the contractor under this contract assists substantially in the preparation of a statement of work or specifications, the contractor shall be ineligible to perform or participate in any capacity in any contractual effort, which is based on such statement of work or specifications. The contractor shall not incorporate its products or services in such statement of work or specifications unless so directed in writing by the CO, in which case the restriction in this subparagraph shall not apply. (b) Access to and use of information 1. If the contractor in the performance of this contract obtains access to information,

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 39 of 120

such as USDA/FSA/IT plans, policies, reports, studies and financial plans or data, which have not been released to the public, the contractor agrees not to: Use such information for any private purpose unless the information has been released to the public. Compete for work for USDA/FSA/IT based on such information for a period of 6 months after the completion of this contract, or the release of such information to the public, whichever is first. Submit an unsolicited proposal to the Government, which is based on such information until 1 year after the release of such information to the public. Release such information without prior written approval by the CO. 2. In addition, the contractor agrees that to the extent it receives or is given access to proprietary data or other confidential, technical, business or financial information under this contract, it shall treat such information in accordance with any restrictions imposed on such information. H.5.3 Subcontracts The contractor shall include this clause, including this paragraph, in subcontracts of any tier, which involve performance of work or access to information of the type specified in the Performance Work Statement. The use of this clause in such subcontracts shall be read by substituting the "subcontractor" for the word "contractor" whenever the word "contractor" appears. H.5.4 Remedies For breach of the above restrictions or for nondisclosure or misrepresentation of any relevant interest required to be disclosed concerning this contract, the Government may, at no cost, terminate the contract, disqualify the contractor from subsequent related contractual efforts and pursue other remedies as may be permitted by laws or this contract. H.5.5 Waiver Any request for waiver under this clause shall be directed in writing to the CO and shall include a full description of the waiver and the reasons in support thereof. If it is determined to be in the best interest of the Government, the CO shall grant such waiver in writing. H.6 AGAR 452.237-75 Restrictions Against Disclosure (FEB 1988)

(a) The Contractor agrees, in the performance of this contract, to keep all information contained in source documents or other media furnished by the Government in the strictest confidence. The Contractor also agrees not to publish or otherwise divulge such information in whole or in part in

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 40 of 120

any manner or form, or to authorize or permit others to do so, taking such reasonable measures as are necessary to restrict access to such information while in the Contractor's possession, to those employees needing such information to perform the work provided herein, i.e., on a "need to know" basis. The Contractor agrees to immediately notify in writing, the Contracting Officer, named herein, in the event that the Contractor determines or has reason to suspect a breach of this requirement. (b) The Contractor agrees not to disclose any information concerning the work under this contract to any persons or individual unless prior written approval is obtained from the Contracting Officer. The Contractor agrees to insert the substance of this clause in any consultant agreement or subcontract hereunder. H.6.1 Non-Disclosure Agreement All Contractor employees performing services under this Contract/Order shall sign a NonDisclosure Statement and Certification, provided under Part III, Section J of this solicitation/contract as "Attachment 1". The COTR will review, for completeness, preliminary or draft documentation that the Contractor submits, and may return it to the Contractor for correction. Absence of any comments by the COTR will not relieve the Contractor of the responsibility for complying with the requirements of this work statement. Final approval and acceptance of documentation required herein shall be by letter of approval and acceptance by COTR. The Contractor shall not construe any letter of acknowledgment of receipt material as a waiver of review, or as an acknowledgment that the material is in conformance with this work statement. Any approval given during preparation of the documentation, or approval for shipment shall not guarantee the final acceptance of the completed documentation. H.7 Section 508 Compliance Requirements

Any/all electronic and information technology (EIT) procured through this effort must meet the applicable accessibility standards at 36 CFR 1194. 36 CFR 1194 implements Section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, and is viewable at http://www.section508.gov. H.8 Hours of Work

On-site contractor support shall be available during customer agency normal operating (0800 1700) hours. Work shall generally consist of 40-hour workweeks, Monday through Friday, excluding federal holidays. The contractor personnel shall observe all Federal holidays. The contractor shall provide for non-standard duty hours support on an as required basis. Nonstandard duty hours or additional hours or times for work to be performed shall be coordinated with the COTR. The additional hours shall be managed in accordance with the funds available and the burn rate for all labor hours shall be monitored. H.9 Government Holidays

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 41 of 120

The following Government holidays are normally observed by Government personnel: New Years Day, Martin Luther King's Birthday, Presidential Inauguration Day (metropolitan DC area only), President's Day, Memorial Day, Independence Day, Labor Day, Columbus Day, Veteran's Day, Thanksgiving Day, Christmas Day, and any other day designated by Federal Statute, Executive Order, and/or Presidential Proclamation. Or any other kind of administrative leave such as acts of God (i.e. hurricanes, snow storms, tornadoes, etc) Presidential funerals or any other unexpected government closures. H.10 Payment for Unauthorized Work No payments will be made for any unauthorized supplies and/or services, or for any unauthorized changes to the work specified herein. This includes any services performed by the Contractor of their own volition or at the request of an individual other than a duly appointed Contracting Officer. Only a duly appointed Contracting Officer is authorized to change the specifications, terms, and conditions under this effort. H.11 Emergency or Special Event Services Occasionally, the Contractor may be required to perform and/or provide services outside the normal hours of duty. These occasions will be infrequent and require services be performed after normal working hours in the evening and/or weekends (Saturday and Sunday). The Contracting Officer/COTR and the contractor will mutually agree upon any/all deviations to the schedule. H.12 EXECUTIVE ORDER 13495 DATED 30 JANUARY 2009 NONDISPLACEMENT OF QUALIFIED WORKERS UNDER SERVICE CONTRACTS

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 42 of 120

Part II ­ Contract Clauses SECTION I ­ CONTRACT CLAUSES I.1 52.252-2 Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): https://www.acquisition.gov/FAR/, or www.usda.gov/procurement/policy/agar.html 52.203-5 -- Covenant Against Contingent Fees (Apr 1984) 52.203-7 -- Anti-Kickback Procedures (Oct 2010) 52.203-12 -- Limitation on Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Oct 2010) 52.204-2 -- Security Requirements (Aug. 1996) 52.204-6 - Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number (Apr 2008) 52.204-7 -- Central Contractor Registration (Apr 2008) 52.209-9 ­ Updates of Publicly Available Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jan 2011) 52.212-4 -- Contract Terms and Conditions -- Commercial Items (Jun 2010) 52.215-8 -- Order of Precedence--uniform Contract Format (Oct 1997) 52.216-31 -- Time-and-Materials/Labor-Hour Proposal Requirements--Commercial Item Acquisition (Feb 2007) 52.222-21 -- Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999) 52.223-2 -- Affirmative Procurement of Biobased Products Under Service And Construction Contracts (Dec 2007) 52.223-4 -- Recovered Material Certification (May 2008) 52.223-5 -- Pollution Prevention and Right-to-Know Information (May 2011) 52.223-6 -- Drug-Free Workplace (May 2001) 52.223-17 ­ Affirmative Procurement of EPA-Designated Items in Service and Construction Contracts (May 2008) 52.227-1 -- Authorization and Consent (Dec 2007) 52.227-14 -- Rights in Data ­ General (Dec 2007) 52.232-18 -- Availability of Funds (Apr 1984) 52.233-3 -- Protest After Award (Aug. 1996) 52.233-4 -- Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (Oct 2004) 52.237-3 -- Continuity of Services (Jan 1991) 52.239-1 -- Privacy or Security Safeguards(Aug. 1996) 52.242-13 -- Bankruptcy (Jul 1995) 52.242-15 -- Stop Work Order (Aug 1989) 52.245-1 -- Government Property (Aug 2010) 52.245-9- - Use and Charges (Aug 2010) 52.246-20-- Warranty of Services (May 2001) 52.249-8 -- Default (Fixed-Price Supply and Service) (Apr 1984)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 43 of 120

I.2

Clauses in Full Text

52.204-1 - Approval of Contract (Dec 1989) This contract is subject to the written approval of Billy Rowland, Contracting Officer and shall not be binding until so approved. (End of Clause) 52.209-7 ­ Information Regarding Responsibility Matters (Jan 2011) (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Administrative proceeding" means a non-judicial process that is adjudicatory in nature in order to make a determination of fault or liability (e.g., Securities and Exchange Commission Administrative Proceedings, Civilian Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings, and Armed Services Board of Contract Appeals Proceedings). This includes administrative proceeding at the Federal and State level but only in connection with performance of a Federal contract or grant. It does not include agency actions such as contract audits, site visits, corrective plans, or inspection of deliverables. "Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000" means-- (1) The total value of all current, active contracts and grants, including all priced options; and (2) The total value of all current, active orders including all priced options under indefinitedelivery, indefinite-quantity, 8(a), or requirements contracts (including task and delivery and multiple-award Schedules). "Principal" means an officer, director, owner, partner, or a person having primary management or supervisory responsibilities within a business entity (e.g., general manager; plant manager; head of a division or business segment; and similar positions). (b) The offeror [_] has [_] does not have current active Federal contracts and grants with total value greater than $10,000,000. (c) If the offeror checked "has" in paragraph (b) of this provision, the offeror represents, by submission of this offer, that the information it has entered in the Federal Awardee Performance and Integrity Information System (FAPIIS) is current, accurate, and complete as of the date of submission of this offer with regard to the following information: (1) Whether the offeror, and/or any of its principals, has or has not, within the last five years, in connection with the award to or performance by the offeror of a Federal contract or grant, been the subject of a proceeding, at the Federal or State level that resulted in any of the following dispositions:

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 44 of 120

(i) In a criminal proceeding, a conviction. (ii) In a civil proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in the payment of a monetary fine, penalty, reimbursement, restitution, or damages of $5,000 or more. (iii) In an administrative proceeding, a finding of fault and liability that results in-- (A) The payment of a monetary fine or penalty of $5,000 or more; or (B) The payment of a reimbursement, restitution, or damages in excess of $100,000. (iv) In a criminal, civil, or administrative proceeding, a disposition of the matter by consent or compromise with an acknowledgment of fault by the Contractor if the proceeding could have led to any of the outcomes specified in paragraphs (c)(1)(i), (c)(1)(ii), or (c)(1)(iii) of this provision. (2) If the offeror has been involved in the last five years in any of the occurrences listed in (c)(1) of this provision, whether the offeror has provided the requested information with regard to each occurrence. (d) The offeror shall post the information in paragraphs (c)(1)(i) through (c)(1)(iv) of this provision in FAPIIS as required through maintaining an active registration in the Central Contractor Registration database at http://www.ccr.gov (see 52.204-7). (End of provision) 52.212-5 - Contract Terms and Conditions Required to Implement Statutes or Executive Orders--Commercial Items (May 2011) (a) The Contractor shall comply with the following Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) clauses, which are incorporated in this contract by reference, to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: (1) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (2) 52.233-3, Protest After Award (AUG 1996) (31 U.S.C. 3553). (3) 52.233-4, Applicable Law for Breach of Contract Claim (OCT 2004) (Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78). (b) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (b) that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: _X_ (1) 52.203-6, Restrictions on Subcontractor Sales to the Government (Sept 2006), with Alternate I (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 253g and 10 U.S.C. 2402).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 45 of 120

_ X_ (2) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110-252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)). _ X_ (3) 52.203-15, Whistleblower Protections under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (June 2010) (Section 1553 of Pub. L. 111-5). (Applies to contracts funded by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) _ X_ (4) 52.204-10, Reporting Executive Compensation and First-Tier Subcontract Awards (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 109-282) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). __ (5) 52.204-11, American Recovery and Reinvestment Act--Reporting Requirements (Jul 2010) (Pub. L. 111-5). _ X_ (6) 52.209-6, Protecting the Government's Interest When Subcontracting with Contractors Debarred, Suspended, or Proposed for Debarment (DEC 2010) (31 U.S.C. 6101 note). (Applies to contracts over $30,000). (Not applicable to subcontracts for the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items). __ (7) 52.209-10, Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations (section 740 of Division C of Pub. L. 111-117, section 743 of Division D of Pub. L. 111-8, and section 745 of Division D of Pub. L. 110-161). __ (8) 52.219-3, Notice of Total HUBZone Set-Aside or Sole-Source Award (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (9) 52.219-4, Notice of Price Evaluation Preference for HUBZone Small Business Concerns (JAN 2011) (if the offeror elects to waive the preference, it shall so indicate in its offer) (15 U.S.C. 657a). __ (10) [Reserved] _X_ (11)(i) 52.219-6, Notice of Total Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-6. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-6. __ (12)(i) 52.219-7, Notice of Partial Small Business Set-Aside (June 2003) (15 U.S.C. 644). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 1995) of 52.219-7. __ (iii) Alternate II (Mar 2004) of 52.219-7. _ X_ (13) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)). _ X_ (14)(i) 52.219-9, Small Business Subcontracting Plan (Jan 2011) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)). __ (ii) Alternate I (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iii) Alternate II (Oct 2001) of 52.219-9. __ (iv) Alternate III (Jul 2010) of 52.219-9. _ X_ (15) 52.219-14, Limitations on Subcontracting (Dec 1996) (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(14)).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 46 of 120

_ X_ (16) 52.219-16, Liquidated Damages--Subcon-tracting Plan (Jan 1999) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(4)(F)(i)). __ (17)(i) 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns (OCT 2008) (10 U.S.C. 2323) (if the offeror elects to waive the adjustment, it shall so indicate in its offer). __ (ii) Alternate I (June 2003) of 52.219-23. __ (18) 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting (Dec 2010) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (19) 52.219-26, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program-- Incentive Subcontracting (Oct 2000) (Pub. L. 103-355, section 7102, and 10 U.S.C. 2323). __ (20) 52.219-27, Notice of Total Service-Disabled Veteran-Owned Small Business SetAside (May 2004) (15 U.S.C. 657 f). _ X_ (21) 52.219-28, Post Award Small Business Program Rerepresentation (Apr 2009) (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(2)). __ (22) 52.219-29 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Economically Disadvantaged WomenOwned Small Business (EDWOSB) Concerns (Apr 2011). __ (23) 52.219-30 Notice of Total Set-Aside for Women-Owned Small Business (WOSB) Concerns Eligible Under the WOSB Program (Apr 2011). _ X_ (24) 52.222-3, Convict Labor (June 2003) (E.O. 11755). _ X_ (25) 52.222-19, Child Labor--Cooperation with Authorities and Remedies (Jul 2010) (E.O. 13126). _ X_ (26) 52.222-21, Prohibition of Segregated Facilities (Feb 1999). _ X_ (27) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). _ X_ (28) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010)(38 U.S.C. 4212). _ X_ (29) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). _ X_ (30) 52.222-37, Employment Reports on Veterans (SEP 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). _ X_ (31) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). _ X_ (32) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (Executive Order 12989). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items or certain other types of commercial items as prescribed in 22.1803.) _ X_ (33)(i) 52.223-9, Estimate of Percentage of Recovered Material Content for EPA­ Designated Items (May 2008) (42 U.S.C. 6962(c)(3)(A)(ii)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) __ (ii) Alternate I (May 2008) of 52.223-9 (42 U.S.C. 6962(i)(2)(C)). (Not applicable to the acquisition of commercially available off-the-shelf items.) _ X_ (34) 52.223-15, Energy Efficiency in Energy-Consuming Products (DEC 2007) (42 U.S.C. 8259b).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 47 of 120

__ (35)(i) 52.223-16, IEEE 1680 Standard for the Environmental Assessment of Personal Computer Products (DEC 2007) (E.O. 13423). __ (ii) Alternate I (DEC 2007) of 52.223-16. _ X_ (36) 52.223-18, Contractor Policy to Ban Text Messaging While Driving (SEP 2010) (E.O. 13513). __ (37) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d). __ (38)(i) 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act (June 2009) (41 U.S.C. 10a-10d, 19 U.S.C. 3301 note, 19 U.S.C. 2112 note, 19 U.S.C. 3805 note, Pub. L. 108-77, 108-78, 108-286, 108-302, 109-53, 109-169, 109-283, and 110-138). __ (ii) Alternate I (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (iii) Alternate II (Jan 2004) of 52.225-3. __ (39) 52.225-5, Trade Agreements (AUG 2009) (19 U.S.C. 2501, et seq., 19 U.S.C. 3301 note). _ X_ (40) 52.225-13, Restrictions on Certain Foreign Purchases (June 2008) (E.O.'s, proclamations, and statutes administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury). __ (41) 52.226-4, Notice of Disaster or Emergency Area Set-Aside (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (42) 52.226-5, Restrictions on Subcontracting Outside Disaster or Emergency Area (Nov 2007) (42 U.S.C. 5150). __ (43) 52.232-29, Terms for Financing of Purchases of Commercial Items (Feb 2002) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _ X_ (44) 52.232-30, Installment Payments for Commercial Items (Oct 1995) (41 U.S.C. 255(f), 10 U.S.C. 2307(f)). _ X_ (45) 52.232-33, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Central Contractor Registration (Oct 2003) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (46) 52.232-34, Payment by Electronic Funds Transfer--Other than Central Contractor Registration (May 1999) (31 U.S.C. 3332). __ (47) 52.232-36, Payment by Third Party (Feb 2010) (31 U.S.C. 3332). _ X_ (48) 52.239-1, Privacy or Security Safeguards (Aug 1996) (5 U.S.C. 552a). __ (49)(i) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). __ (ii) Alternate I (Apr 2003) of 52.247-64. (c) The Contractor shall comply with the FAR clauses in this paragraph (c), applicable to commercial services, that the Contracting Officer has indicated as being incorporated in this contract by reference to implement provisions of law or Executive orders applicable to acquisitions of commercial items: _ X_ (1) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 48 of 120

_ X_ (2) 52.222-42, Statement of Equivalent Rates for Federal Hires (May 1989) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _ X_ (3) 52.222-43, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Multiple Year and Option Contracts) (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). _ X_ (4) 52.222-44, Fair Labor Standards Act and Service Contract Act--Price Adjustment (Sep 2009) (29 U.S.C. 206 and 41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (5) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment--Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 351, et seq.). __ (6) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services--Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). __ (7) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). __ (8) 52.237-11, Accepting and Dispensing of $1 Coin (Sept 2008) (31 U.S.C. 5112(p)(1)). (d) Comptroller General Examination of Record. The Contractor shall comply with the provisions of this paragraph (d) if this contract was awarded using other than sealed bid, is in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold, and does not contain the clause at 52.215-2, Audit and Records--Negotiation. (1) The Comptroller General of the United States, or an authorized representative of the Comptroller General, shall have access to and right to examine any of the Contractor's directly pertinent records involving transactions related to this contract. (2) The Contractor shall make available at its offices at all reasonable times the records, materials, and other evidence for examination, audit, or reproduction, until 3 years after final payment under this contract or for any shorter period specified in FAR Subpart 4.7, Contractor Records Retention, of the other clauses of this contract. If this contract is completely or partially terminated, the records relating to the work terminated shall be made available for 3 years after any resulting final termination settlement. Records relating to appeals under the disputes clause or to litigation or the settlement of claims arising under or relating to this contract shall be made available until such appeals, litigation, or claims are finally resolved. (3) As used in this clause, records include books, documents, accounting procedures and practices, and other data, regardless of type and regardless of form. This does not require the Contractor to create or maintain any record that the Contractor does not maintain in the ordinary course of business or pursuant to a provision of law. (e)(1) Notwithstanding the requirements of the clauses in paragraphs (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this clause, the Contractor is not required to flow down any FAR clause, other than those in this paragraph (e)(1) in a subcontract for commercial items. Unless otherwise indicated below, the extent of the flow down shall be as required by the clause-- (i) 52.203-13, Contractor Code of Business Ethics and Conduct (Apr 2010) (Pub. L. 110252, Title VI, Chapter 1 (41 U.S.C. 251 note)).

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 49 of 120

(ii) 52.219-8, Utilization of Small Business Concerns (Dec 2010) (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(2) and (3)), in all subcontracts that offer further subcontracting opportunities. If the subcontract (except subcontracts to small business concerns) exceeds $650,000 ($1.5 million for construction of any public facility), the subcontractor must include 52.219-8 in lower tier subcontracts that offer subcontracting opportunities. (iii) [Reserved] (iv) 52.222-26, Equal Opportunity (Mar 2007) (E.O. 11246). (v) 52.222-35, Equal Opportunity for Veterans (Sep 2010) (38 U.S.C. 4212). (vi) 52.222-36, Affirmative Action for Workers with Disabilities (Oct 2010) (29 U.S.C. 793). (vii) 52.222-40, Notification of Employee Rights Under the National Labor Relations Act (Dec 2010) (E.O. 13496). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (f) of FAR clause 52.222-40. (viii) 52.222-41, Service Contract Act of 1965 (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (ix) 52.222-50, Combating Trafficking in Persons (Feb 2009) (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). ___Alternate I (Aug 2007) of 52.222-50 (22 U.S.C. 7104(g)). (x) 52.222-51, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Maintenance, Calibration, or Repair of Certain Equipment-Requirements (Nov 2007) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xi) 52.222-53, Exemption from Application of the Service Contract Act to Contracts for Certain Services-Requirements (Feb 2009) (41 U.S.C. 351, et seq.). (xii) 52.222-54, Employment Eligibility Verification (JAN 2009). (xiii) 52.226-6, Promoting Excess Food Donation to Nonprofit Organizations (Mar 2009) (Pub. L. 110-247). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (e) of FAR clause 52.2266. (xiv) 52.247-64, Preference for Privately Owned U.S.-Flag Commercial Vessels (Feb 2006) (46 U.S.C. Appx. 1241(b) and 10 U.S.C. 2631). Flow down required in accordance with paragraph (d) of FAR clause 52.247-64. (2) While not required, the contractor may include in its subcontracts for commercial items a minimal number of additional clauses necessary to satisfy its contractual obligations. (End of clause) 52.216-18 -- Ordering (Oct 1995) (a) Any supplies and services to be furnished under this contract shall be ordered by issuance of delivery orders or task orders by the individuals or activities designated in the Schedule. Such orders may be issued from August 1, 2011 through July 31, 2014.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 50 of 120

(b) All delivery orders or task orders are subject to the terms and conditions of this contract. In the event of conflict between a delivery order or task order and this contract, the contract shall control. (c) If mailed, a delivery order or task order is considered "issued" when the Government deposits the order in the mail. Orders may be issued orally, by facsimile, or by electronic commerce methods only if authorized in the Schedule. (End of clause) 52.216-19 -- Order Limitations (Oct 1995) (a) Minimum order. When the Government requires supplies or services covered by this contract in an amount of less than $1,000.00, the Government is not obligated to purchase, nor is the Contractor obligated to furnish, those supplies or services under the contract. (b) Maximum order. The Contractor is not obligated to honor-- (1) Any order for a single item in excess of $5 Million; (2) Any order for a combination of items in excess of $5 Million; or (3) A series of orders from the same ordering office within 30 days that together call for quantities exceeding the limitation in paragraph (b)(1) or (2) of this section. (c) If this is a requirements contract (i.e., includes the Requirements clause at subsection 52.216-21 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR)), the Government is not required to order a part of any one requirement from the Contractor if that requirement exceeds the maximum-order limitations in paragraph (b) of this section. (d) Notwithstanding paragraphs (b) and (c) of this section, the Contractor shall honor any order exceeding the maximum order limitations in paragraph (b), unless that order (or orders) is returned to the ordering office within N/A days after issuance, with written notice stating the Contractor's intent not to ship the item (or items) called for and the reasons. Upon receiving this notice, the Government may acquire the supplies or services from another source. (End of clause) 52.216-22 -- Indefinite Quantity (Oct 1995) (a) This is an indefinite-quantity contract for the supplies or services specified, and effective for the period stated, in the Schedule. The quantities of supplies and services specified in the Schedule are estimates only and are not purchased by this contract. (b) Delivery or performance shall be made only as authorized by orders issued in accordance with the Ordering clause. The Contractor shall furnish to the Government, when and if ordered, the supplies or services specified in the Schedule up to and including the quantity designated in

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 51 of 120

the Schedule as the "maximum." The Government shall order at least the quantity of supplies or services designated in the Schedule as the "minimum." (c) Except for any limitations on quantities in the Order Limitations clause or in the Schedule, there is no limit on the number of orders that may be issued. The Government may issue orders requiring delivery to multiple destinations or performance at multiple locations. (d) Any order issued during the effective period of this contract and not completed within that period shall be completed by the Contractor within the time specified in the order. The contract shall govern the Contractor's and Government's rights and obligations with respect to that order to the same extent as if the order were completed during the contract's effective period; provided, that the Contractor shall not be required to make any deliveries under this contract after 07/31/2014. (End of clause) 452.216-73 -- MINIMUM AND MAXIMUM CONTRACT AMOUNTS (FEB 1988) During the period specified in FAR clause 52.216-18, ORDERING, the Government shall place orders totaling a minimum of $1,000, but not in excess of $5 Million. (End of Clause) 52.217-8 -- Option to Extend Services (Nov 1999) The Government may require continued performance of any services within the limits and at the rates specified in the contract. These rates may be adjusted only as a result of revisions to prevailing labor rates provided by the Secretary of Labor. The option provision may be exercised more than once, but the total extension of performance hereunder shall not exceed 6 months. The Contracting Officer may exercise the option by written notice to the Contractor within 1 day. (End of Clause) 52.217-9 -- Option to Extend the Term of the Contract (Mar 2000) a) The Government may extend the term of this contract by written notice to the Contractor within 1 day; provided that the Government gives the Contractor a preliminary written notice of its intent to extend at least 30 days before the contract expires. The preliminary notice does not commit the Government to an extension. (b) If the Government exercises this option, the extended contract shall be considered to include this option clause. (c) The total duration of this contract, including the exercise of any options under this clause, shall not exceed 54 months.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 52 of 120

(End of Clause) 52.219-17 -- Section 8(a) Award (Dec 1996) (a) By execution of a contract, the Small Business Administration (SBA) agrees to the following: (1) To furnish the supplies or services set forth in the contract according to the specifications and the terms and conditions by subcontracting with the Offeror who has been determined an eligible concern pursuant to the provisions of section 8(a) of the Small Business Act, as amended (15 U.S.C. 637(a)). (2) Except for novation agreements and advance payments, delegates to the USDA, Farm Service Agency, Acquisitions Management Division the responsibility for administering the contract with complete authority to take any action on behalf of the Government under the terms and conditions of the contract; provided, however that the contracting agency shall give advance notice to the SBA before it issues a final notice terminating the right of the subcontractor to proceed with further performance, either in whole or in part, under the contract. (3) That payments to be made under the contract will be made directly to the subcontractor by the contracting activity. (4) To notify the USDA, Farm Service Agency, Acquisitions Management Division Contracting Officer immediately upon notification by the subcontractor that the owner or owners upon whom 8(a) eligibility was based plan to relinquish ownership or control of the concern. (5) That the subcontractor awarded a subcontract hereunder shall have the right of appeal from decisions of the cognizant Contracting Officer under the "Disputes" clause of the subcontract. (b) The offeror/subcontractor agrees and acknowledges that it will, for and on behalf of the SBA, fulfill and perform all of the requirements of the contract. (c) The offeror/subcontractor agrees that it will not subcontract the performance of any of the requirements of this subcontract to any lower tier subcontractor without the prior written approval of the SBA and the cognizant Contracting Officer of the USDA, Farm Service Agency, Acquisitions Management Division. (End of clause) 52.219-18 -- Notification of Competition Limited to Eligible 8(a) Concerns (June 2003) (a) Offers are solicited only from small business concerns expressly certified by the Small Business Administration (SBA) for participation in the SBA's 8(a) Program and which meet the following criteria at the time of submission of offer-- (1) The Offeror is in conformance with the 8(a) support limitation set forth in its approved business plan; and

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 53 of 120

(2) The Offeror is in conformance with the Business Activity Targets set forth in its approved business plan or any remedial action directed by the SBA. (b) By submission of its offer, the Offeror represents that it meets all of the criteria set forth in paragraph (a) of this clause. (c) Any award resulting from this solicitation will be made to the Small Business Administration, which will subcontract performance to the successful 8(a) offeror selected through the evaluation criteria set forth in this solicitation. (d)(1) Agreement. A small business concern submitting an offer in its own name shall furnish, in performing the contract, only end items manufactured or produced by small business concerns in the United States or its outlying areas. If this procurement is processed under simplified acquisition procedures and the total amount of this contract does not exceed $25,000, a small business concern may furnish the product of any domestic firm. This paragraph does not apply to construction or service contracts. (2) The Contractor will notify the USDA, Farm Service Agency, Acquisitions Management Division Contracting Officer in writing immediately upon entering an agreement (either oral or written) to transfer all or part of its stock or other ownership interest to any other party. (End of clause) AGAR 452.224-70 Confidentiality of Information (FEB 1988) (a) Confidential information, as used in this clause, means -(1) Information or data of a personal nature, proprietary about an individual or (2) information or data submitted by or pertaining to an organization. (b) In addition to the types of confidential information described in (a)(1) and (2) above, information which might require special consideration with regard to the timing of its disclosure may derive from studies or research, during which public disclosure of primarily invalidated findings could create an erroneous conclusion which might threaten public health or safety if acted upon. (c) The Contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify elsewhere in this contract specific information and/or categories of information which the Government will furnish to the Contractor or that the Contractor is expected to generate which is confidential. Similarly, the contracting Officer and the Contractor may, by mutual consent, identify such confidential information from time to time during the performance of the contract. Failure to agree will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause. (d) If it is established that information to be utilized under this contract is subject to the Privacy Act, the Contractor will follow the rules and procedures of disclosure set forth in the Privacy Act of 1974, 5 U.S.C. 552a, and implementing regulations and policies, with respect to systems of records determined to be subject to the Privacy Act.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 54 of 120

(e) Confidential information, as defined in (a)(1) and (2) above, shall not be disclosed without the prior written consent of the individual, institution or organization. (f) Written advance notice of at least 45 days will be provided to the Contracting Officer of the Contractor's intent to release findings of studies or research, which have the possibility of adverse effects on the public or the Federal agency, as described in (b) above. If the Contracting Officer does not pose any objections in writing within the 45 day period, the contractor may proceed with disclosure. Disagreements not resolved by the Contractor and Contracting Officer will be settled pursuant to the "Disputes" clause. (g) Whenever the Contractor is uncertain with regard to the proper handling of material under the contract, or if the material in question is subject to the Privacy Act or is confidential information subject to the provisions of this clause, the Contractor shall obtain a written determination from the Contracting Officer prior to any release, disclosure, dissemination, or publication. (h) The provisions of paragraph (e) of this clause shall not apply when the information is subject to conflicting or overlapping provisions in other Federal, State or local laws. (End of Clause) 52.227-21 -- Technical Data Declaration, Revision, and Withholding of Payment -Systems (Dec 2007) Major

(a) Scope of declaration. The Contractor shall provide, in accordance with 41 U.S.C. 418a (d)(7), the following declaration with respect to all technical data that relate to a major system and that are delivered or required to be delivered under this contract or that are delivered within 3 years after acceptance of all items (other than technical data) delivered under this contract unless a different period is set forth in the contract. The Contracting Officer may release the Contractor from all or part of the requirements of this clause for specifically identified technical data items at any time during the period covered by this clause. (b) Technical data declaration. (1) All technical data that are subject to this clause shall be accompanied by the following declaration upon delivery: Technical Data Declaration (Jan 1997) The Contractor, _________________________, hereby declares that, to the best of its knowledge and belief, the technical data delivered herewith under Government contract No. _______ (and subcontract _________________, if appropriate) are complete, accurate, and comply with the requirements of the contract concerning such technical data. (End of declaration)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 55 of 120

(2) The Government may, at any time during the period covered by this clause, direct correction of any deficiencies that are not in compliance with contract requirements. The corrections shall be made at the expense of the Contractor. Unauthorized markings on data shall not be considered a deficiency for the purpose of this clause, but will be treated in accordance with paragraph (e) of the Rights in Data -- General clause included in this contract. (c) Technical data revision. The Contractor also shall, at the request of the Contracting Officer, revise technical data that are subject to this clause to reflect engineering design changes made during the performance of this contract and affecting the form, fit, and function of any item (other than technical data) delivered under this contract. The Contractor may submit a request for an equitable adjustment to the terms and conditions of this contract for any revisions to technical data made pursuant to this paragraph. (d) Withholding of payment. (1) At any time before final payment under this contract the Contracting Officer may withhold payment as a reserve up to an amount not exceeding $100,000 or 5 percent of the amount of this contract, whichever is less, if in the Contractor fails to-- (i) Make timely delivery of the technical. data; (ii) Provide the declaration required by paragraph (b)(1) of this clause; (iii) Make the corrections required by paragraph (b)(2) of this clause; or (iv) Make revisions requested under paragraph (c) of this clause. (2) The Contracting Officer may withhold the reserve until the Contractor has complied with the direction or requests o the Contracting Officer or determines that the deficiencies relating to delivered data, arose out of causes beyond the control of the Contractor and without the fault or negligence of the Contractor. (3) The withholding of any reserve under this clause, or the subsequent payment of the reserve, shall not be construed as a waiver of any Government rights. (End of Clause) 52.233-2 -- Service of Protest (Sep 2006) (a) Protests, as defined in section 33.101 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, that are filed directly with an agency, and copies of any protests that are e filed with the Government Accountability Office (GAO), shall be served on the Contracting Officer (addressed as follows) by obtaining written and dated acknowledgment of receipt from Billy Rowland at USDA, Farm Service Agency, Acquisitions Management Division, 355 E ST, SW, 10TH FLOOR, WASHINGTON, DC 20024.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 56 of 120

(b) The copy of any protest shall be received in the office designated above within one day of filing a protest with the GAO. (End of Provision)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 57 of 120

PART III ­ LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS SECTION J ­ LIST OF ATTACHMENTS Attachment 1 - Non-Disclosure Agreement Attachment 2 ­ Wage Determination Attachment 3 ­ Past Performance Evaluation Survey Attachment 4 ­ Task Order Solicitation

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 58 of 120

ATTACHMENT 1

NON-DISCLOSURE ACKNOWLEDGEMENT I hereby agree that I shall keep confidential and not publish, use or disclose to any other individual or entity, either directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), except that I may make use of such information to the extent necessary and authorized to fulfill any requirements of contract AG-3151-C-11-XXXX with ___VENDOR NAME_____ and USDA, and further, that any individual to whom I disclose such Confidential Information shall have first agreed to the same limitations of this agreement. For the purposes of this document: "USDA" includes the Farm Service Agency, Commodity Credit Corporation, and any other agency within the USDA; and, "Confidential Information" means any information acquired by me as a result of my employment with the Company in connection with contract AG-3151-C-11-XXXX the USDA, its business, operations, customers and/or clients, except for information which has been made public by the USDA. My obligation to not disclose any Confidential Information shall continue during and in perpetuity after my working relationship with the Company. I acknowledge and agree further that all client lists, supplier lists, computer hardware and software, including software developed for USDA, source and object code, procedures of the USDA and all other confidential information that I obtain from or while I am employed by or associated with the Company are the property of the USDA. I agree that at the termination of my working relationship with the Company, or the completion of the USDA engagement, or otherwise at the request of the USDA, I shall immediately return all such property and information to the Company and/or USDA, as appropriate, including all copies thereof. I acknowledge that I will adhere to all USDA security policies and rules in handling USDA information and systems. I understand that violation of this agreement may result in civil and criminal penalties under the Privacy Act.

Employee Signature

Print Name

Date

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 59 of 120

ATTACHMENT 2

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 60 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 61 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 62 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 63 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 64 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 65 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 66 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 67 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 68 of 120

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) SolicitationSolicitation: No. AG-3151-S-11-0025 AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 69 of 120

ATTACHMENT 3 - PAST PERFORMANCE EVALUATION SURVEY
PLEASE EMAIL OR FAX WITHIN 2 DAYS OF RECEIPT TO: US DEPT OF AGRICULTURE ATTN: Jeffrey McRae, Contractor Support Fax: (202) 690-3320 E-mail: Jeffrey.Mcrae@wdc.usda.gov
1. NAME AND ADDRESS OF OFFEROR (TO BE COMPLETED BY OFFEROR):

FROM: (Offeror shall insert name, title, and address of reference)

DATE SURVEY COMPLETED:

2. CONTRACT NUMBER OR IDENTIFIER

TYPE OF CONTRACT*

AWARD DATE

COMPLETION DATE

VALUE

$
*INCLUDE ALL THAT APPLY: FIRM-FIXED PRICE (FFP); FIXED-PRICE, ECONOMIC PRICE ADJUSTMENT (FP-EPA); COST-PLUS-FIXED-FEE (CPFF), COMPLETION OR TERM; COSTPLUS-INCENTIVE-FEE (CPIF); COST-PLUS-AWARD -FEE (CPAF) ; COST; COST-SHARING; INDEFINITE DELIVERY/INDEFINITE QUANTITY (IDIQ); BASIC ORDERING AGREEMENT (BOA); FEDERAL SUPPLY SCHEDULE; REQUIREMENTS; LABOR HOUR; TIME AND MATERIALS (T&M); OTHER 3. DESCRIPTION(S) OF PRODUCTS OR SERVICES PROVIDED:

4. USING THE ATTACHED PERFORMANCE RATING GUIDELINES CHART, PLEASE RATE THE COMPANY LISTED IN 1 ABOVE ON THE CONTRACTS/PROJECTS LISTED IN 2 ABOVE. PROVIDE COMMENTS FOR RATINGS OF EXCELLENT, POOR, OR UNSATISFACTORY 4a. QUALITY OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

EXCELLENT Comments:
4b. TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE:

GOOD

FAIR

POOR

UNSATISFACTORY

EXCELLENT Comments:
4c. COST CONTROL

GOOD

FAIR

POOR

UNSATISFACTORY

EXCELLENT Comments:
4d. BUSINESS RELATIONS:

GOOD

FAIR

POOR

UNSATISFACTORY

EXCELLENT Comments:

GOOD

FAIR

POOR

UNSATISFACTORY

5. WAS/IS THE FIRM COMMITTED TO CUSTOMER SATISFACTION?

YES Comments:

NO

6. WOULD YOU SELECT THIS FIRM AGAIN AND WHY? PLEASE INCLUDE COMMENTS REGARDING ANY SPECIFIC KEY PERSONNEL ON YOUR CONTRACT(S) THAT ARE RELEVANT. ATTACH ADDITIONAL SHEET IF NECESSARY.
7a. PRINTED/TYPED NAME AND SIGNATURE OF PREPARER OF SURVEY RESPONSE: 7b. TELEPHONE NUMBER:

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 70 of 120

PERFORMANCE RATING GUIDELINES
IF A FACTOR IS NOT APPLICABLE (FOR EXAMPLE, COST CONTROL ON A FIXED-PRICE CONTRACT), THEN MARK THAT FACTOR AS N/A IN THE COMMENTS ON THE RATING SHEET.

MEASUREMENT CATEGORIES AND APPROPRIATE CRITERIA

QUALITY OF PRODUCTS AND SERVICES
-Compliance with contract requirements -Accurate reporting -Use of appropriate personnel -Technical excellence

TIMELINESS OF PERFORMANCE
-Performance milestones & delivery schedules reliably met -Responsive to technical direction -Timely completion, including wrap-up & contract admin. -No liquidated damages There were no delays.

COST CONTROL
-Performance within budget/targeted costs -Current, accurate and complete billings -Actual costs in line with negotiated costs -Cost efficient -No change orders due to poor cost control

BUSINESS RELATIONS
-Effective management -Businesslike communications -Prompt notification of problems -Reasonable, cooperative, flexible, pro-active -Effective small/small disadvantaged business subcontracting Responses to inquiries and technical/service issues were consistently effective and responsive. Responses to inquiries and technical/service issues was usually effective and responsive. Responses to inquiries and technical/service issues were occasionally effective and responsive. Responses to inquiries and technical/service issues were marginally effective and responsive. Responses to inquiries and technical/service issues were consistently ineffective and unresponsive.

EXCELLENT

There were no quality problems.

There were no cost issues

GOOD

Non-conformances had no effect on achievement of contract requirements. Non-conformances required minor resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Non-conformances required significant resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Non-conformances compromised achievement of contract requirements.

Delays had no effect on achievement of contract requirements. Delays required minor resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Delays required significant resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Delays compromised compliance with contract requirements.

Cost issues had no effect on achievement of contract requirements. Cost issues required minor resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Cost issues required significant resources to ensure achievement of contract requirements. Cost issues compromised achievement of contract performance requirements.

FAIR

POOR

UNSATISFACTORY

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 71 of 120

ATTACHMENT 4 SECTION B ­ SUPPLIES OR SERVICES AND PRICES/COSTS B.1. SCHEDULE OF SERVICES

This is an order under contract no. To Be Determined. Except as may be otherwise expressly set forth in this contract, the Contractor shall furnish all personnel, facilities, equipment, material, supplies, and services, in performance of the services specified under Section C ­ Performance Work Statement (PWS) and delivered within the Deliverable Schedule and within the period of performance specified in Section F ­ Deliveries or Performance. B.2. PRICE SCHEDULE

B.2.1 Deliverables
CLIN Task/ Requirement Deliverable Unit of Issue* Qty Cost

Anticipated 08/01/2011 through 03/11/2012 001 Project Management (firm-fixedprice)

002

Production Maintenance Support (firm-fixedprice)

Overall Project Management includes the management of technical resources, reporting of project status and participation in Disaster Recovery and Certification &Accreditation activities as required. Creation of a "Knowledge Transfer Plan" and oversight of the execution of it shall be the responsibility of the Project Leader. The Project Leader shall ensure compliance of all SDLC, FISMA and 508 laws and regulations. The Project Leader will be the single point of contact for communications regarding facility directives or problems and any other administrative communications. The Project Leader shall be responsible for communicating to his subordinates as appropriate. Reports and Meetings ­ Reports are required to be delivered on time both out of the system and relating to the system with current, accurate, and complete data with consistent display. Within one week of award, the Contractor shall conduct a startup meeting with the Government if the Government so requests. Production Maintenance Support: The production maintenance support is as authorized by the Business Owner or Project Owner as necessary utilizing the FSA incident tracking system, currently Remedy. The number varies

Mo

7.5

Mo

7.5

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 72 of 120

003

Systems Enhancements (labor-hour)

according to the viability of the application and the attentiveness of the user. On average there have been less than 270 data fixes per annum. Final deliverable is the successful completion of the incident report with resolution of data or user satisfaction. Enhancements to TAPS: Contract family ancestry lookup and display; 1099 Enhancements; and Contract change enhancement. Final deliverable for enhancement is completion of required documentation and installation of the software into the production environment. hr

*mo = Month; hr = Hour

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 73 of 120

SECTION C ­ PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT C.1.0 PERFORMANCE WORK STATEMENT NOTE: The Task Order (TO) for this requirement will be structured with hybrid pricing, in that work for which there is a basis for firm-fixed-pricing will be awarded for a firm fixed price; and requirements for which there may be a measure of uncertainty will be awarded on a labor-hour basis, or mixed firm-fixedprice/labor-hour basis. The Government reserves right to further change this during negotiations, prior to award. C.1.1 Background and Objectives Currently, when all users retrieve data from the application only current contracts can be seen. They cannot see the entire series (family) of Contracts without having to do many reports. Also, there are exceptions to the calculations of imputed interest on the Quota Holder Contracts causing too much manual intervention. These exceptions need to be handled by the application. Lastly, because of the TTPP contract changes at the county office level, four issues have arose causing payment and reporting issues. There are three objectives for this task: a. to develop web-based functionality to take a single TTPP Contract (Contract) number and identify the entire contract family related to the Contract. b. to provide additional functionality for the calculation and reporting of imputed interest on the Quota Holder Contracts. c. develop web-based functionality to provide for the increased information elicitation and validation. C.1.2 Scope The overall scope of the support requested is to provide a robust application that will allow the Users the ability to successfully and completely administer the regulations for our Customers, the Tobacco Producers, Quota Holders, and Successors-In-Interest. C.1.3 Performance Requirements Contract Ancestor Family Tree: The Contract Ancestry should show the path of all changes and contracts within the family in addition to also having the capability to show all payments made to each contract and any overpayments identified for a contract within the TTPP application. In addition, when selecting a particular Contract the user should be able to see all details of that Contract including, but not limited to: Producer Information, BQL (Base Quota Level), Contract Value, Installments, Approval Dates, and Cancellation Dates. The ability to create and print reports for the Contract Family or for one Contract within the family.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 74 of 120

1099 Enhancements: The generation of several files to report payments is currently generated within a few days of each other but due to data needing to match this must be done simultaneously to avoid exceptions and inconsistent reporting. The process to generate the calculations needs to have the capability to perform several test runs in order for data to be validated and fixed prior to the final run. The 1099-Reporting function has several very tight deadlines and the capability must exist for the stakeholders to be able to review and correct any data prior to the final file generations. Finally, a payment to form reconciliation needs to be performed on an annual basis to ensure forms sent out match the payments for the Quota Holder contracts. Contract Change Enhancement: Due to TTPP contract changes at the county office level, four issues have arose causing payment and reporting issues. 1. The BQL is incorrect on the current generation contract or the N generation contract. 2. The TIN is incorrect on the current generation contract or the N generation contract. 3. Payments made to the current generation contract occur after the contract change should have occurred. 4. The contract length for N generation contracts is not properly calculated. It has been determined that to reduce these problems from producing errors and manual fixes to the data, additional processes and validations need to occur prior to the completion of the contract changes. The application needs to elicit information from County Office personnel to ensure the BQL, TIN, payments, and length of contract are accurate and appropriate. Expected support service work items: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Analysis of current system understanding. Determination of functionality not present according to the agreed upon User Requirements. Gather information and understanding with the entire Tobacco team. Design the system to incorporate any missing or incorrect functionality. Develop the code according to the approved design. Conduct unit testing on all code affected by the changes. Write automated tests to continually ensure changes do not negatively affect existing code. Perform integration testing to ensure all code functions according to the User Requirements. Troubleshoot and provide support to all testing environments. Work with staff to ensure database integrity and define reusable processes already developed. Support Certification staff. Support release of enhanced system to Production. This task includes performing Definition & Analysis, Development, Testing, and Implementation of the updated application.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 75 of 120

C.2

Type of Contract This will be an indefinite-quantity contract with firm-fixed-price (FFP) and labor-hour (LH) deliverables.

C.3

Deliverables

C.3.1. Firm-fixed-price C. 3.1.2 C. 3.1.3 Conduct a Startup Briefing Project Management Project Plan (i.e., work breakdown structure, project resource assignments, resource hours, projected task completion dates for each resource assigned, overall completion date for delivery to Acceptance Testing, and project assumptions), Product/Backlog, Burndown Chart, and a Velocity Report. All project plans shall be maintained on a SharePoint site and retained in the document repository, currently SubVersion. C. 3.1.4 Reporting The definition of final deliverable for reports is on time delivery with current, accurate, and complete data with consistent display. C.3.1.4.1 Incident Tracking by Sprint This report gives a list of incident reports worked, received, and completed during each Sprint. It includes both data fixes and functionality fixes of the code. This report is maintained by the Project Lead in conjunction with the Specialist(s) working the reports. It is given at the end of each Sprint which usually lasts 2 weeks. C.3.1.4.2 Feature (Product) Backlog A Feature Backlog, sometimes referred to as a Product Backlog, always lists items adding business value. It includes functional requirements and non-functional requirements. It can also include items required by the team, but only the ones that will eventually bring business value. For example, taking into use a continuous integration server in order to guarantee the continuous end product quality. The Feature Backlog is maintained by the Project Lead and is used by the Project Lead and Senior System Architect to plan and report work. It is started at the beginning of the work and constantly maintained. It is made available on a SharePoint site available to everyone associated with the Project. This report and the

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 76 of 120

following three reports are dependent upon each other and must be updated daily. C.3.1.4.3 Sprint Backlog The Sprint Backlog focuses on the priorities for the current iteration and the information derived will help determine the amount of work that can be accomplished during each Sprint. It is maintained by the Project Lead and delivered at the end of each Sprint. C.3.1.4.4 Burndown Chart The sprint burn down chart is a publicly displayed chart showing remaining work in the sprint backlog. Updated every day, it provides a simple view of the sprint progress and quick visualizations for reference. It is maintained by the Project Lead and delivered at the end of each Sprint. C.3.1.4.5 Velocity Chart Velocity is a simple, powerful method for accurately measuring the rate at which teams consistently deliver business value. To calculate velocity, simply add up the estimates of the features (user stories, requirements, backlog items, etc.) successfully delivered in an iteration. It is maintained by the Project Lead and delivered at the end of each Sprint. C.3.1.4.6 Sandbox (Issues tracking) The Sandbox is a means of tracking issues which could affect the delivery of Features but which may not be considered adding business value. It is accessible to all project members to update according to the rules. It is maintained by all and delivered at the end of the project but must be updated timely. It is the responsibility of the Project Lead to ensure the updates are correct, complete, consistent, coherent, and concise. C.3.1.4.7 TTPP Lump Sum Payment Report This report includes lump sum payment activity by month. This is necessary as fiscal years overlap in calendar year tabulations. Information about the contracts for each year is added to the previous year's information. This annual report usually is performed after the initial batch payments are made in January and takes one (1) Specialist and a review by the Project Lead no more than one (1) day to produce. C.3.1.4.8 TTPP Contracts Sold Report This report accumulates the actual TTPP payments made to Producers and Quota Holders for each State by calendar year. It aggregates all payments reporting the number and amount of payments for each State with a paid contract. The new information is amended to the previous year's report. It is an annual report produced by one (1) Specialist with a review by the Project Lead and takes no more than one (1) work day to produce

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 77 of 120

C.3.1.4.9 SII Annual Account Reconciliation Certification This report provides the Beginning Year Balance, Transactions During the Year, End of Year Balance, and the Projected FY Payment Amount Due. This is to be provided after the sales closing date each year, but no later than November 30th. C.3.1.4.10 SII Audit This report includes contracts purchased from the previous year, the buyer and seller account names, purchased date, date sold (if applicable), purchased contract identifier. Five percent of the contracts are to be reviewed for all quota holder and producer contracts held by financial institutions. A maximum of 100 contracts per account, however no fewer than five contracts per account in the event an account had less than 100 contracts. If an account holds less than five contracts, then 100% of the contracts are reviewed. Additionally, the two largest contracts from each account are selected for review. This report is used to verify the signature authority, discount rate, and proof of payment. This random sample selection pulls data from January 16 through November 1 of the current calendar year (may be a day or two later if the sales closing date lands on the first Tuesday of November in an election year). C.3.1.4.11 Payment to 1099 Form Reconciliation Report This report encompasses all payments made for a given tax year and the corresponding tax form sent. Any payments not receiving a form would need to have an explanation provided. This report would need to be ran anytime the process is ran to obtain data for the S, INT, or OID file. It is crucial the report is generated timely, prior to mailing any forms to the customer. This includes all contracts receiving a payment that received a $0 Form for the current tax year and those not receiving a form due to the Contract Gross Value. This may become an automated report but is currently manual. This is an exhaustive report which can take one (1) Specialist up to two (2) weeks to prepare and the Project Lead up to three (3) days to review. C.3.1.4.12 Quota Holder Contracts Paid after December 15 This report encompasses contracts receiving payments after December 15 until December 31 of current tax year. It is used to ensure all payments receive the appropriate 1099 form. It will be generated the first business day of January of a specified calendar year. It takes one (1) Specialist no more than a half-day to create the report and minimal time for the Project Lead to review. C.3.1.4.13 TIN Mismatch Report This report will be generated to provide information associated with the CP2100 Notice provided by the IRS. It is usually generated in fourth quarter of the current year once information is obtained from the IRS. It

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 78 of 120

contains PII as it has the full Tax Identification Number for entities, persons or businesses, which do not match the IRS retained information. It takes one (1) Specialist no more than a half-day to create the report and minimal time for the Project Lead to review. C.3.1.4.14 Backup Withholding Contract Report This report is generated to provide information associated with TINs identified by the IRS for mandated backup withholding. It is generated in December of the current tax year and used to ensure proper handling of payments and withholding is performed. It takes one (1) Specialist no more than a half-day to create the report and minimal time for the Project Lead to review. C.3.1.5 Production Maintenance Support The definition of final deliverable for the maintenance is the successful completion of the incident report with resolution of data or user satisfaction. C.3.2 Firm-fixed-price / Labor-hour C. 3.2.1 Enhancements The definition of final deliverable for enhancement is completion of required documentation and installation of the software into the production environment. C.3.3 The contractor shall provide all documentation on all deliverables in the proper format for each type of deliverable (for example, coded properly documented for JavaDoc, SDLC documentation, etc.). C.3.4 All deliverables and milestones will be tracked within the Project Plan and the Product Backlog. C.3.5 Deliverables as specified in Attachment 1, Attachment 2, and Attachment 3. The Deliverables Checklist, see Attachments, is a simplified method for tracking the completion of deliverables expected for each CLIN. While the deliverables may change, and not all may be required, generally they are as follows. C.3.5.1 Update Glossary with Approved Definitions The entire project has a Glossary of terms that are defined and used to facilitate understanding across all parts and team members. Before a definition is inserted there is a process where the term is initially defined and then vetted until an agreed upon definition is determined and can be

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 79 of 120

entered. A member, usually the Project lead, is selected to update the Glossary and make the new version available to all members. C.3.5.2 Requirement Documents This is the collection of documents which are used to define the requirements or rules of the project. Since these are ever evolving it is necessary to keep the collection current. These documents include, but are not limited to: ˇ Epic Stories ˇ User Stories ˇ Use Cases ˇ User Requirements ˇ Story Board The Project Leader assigns an individual to retain these documents. When they are in electronic format they are temporarily stored in the SharePoint site and then transferred to the repository, currently SubVersion, for permanent retention. Supplemental Specifications This document includes all non-functional requirements, design constraints, and functional requirements not found in the Requirement Documents for the project. It is maintained by the development team with the Project Lead responsible for the continual updates as needed. Business Rules (Requirements Matrix) This document is a cross matrix for recording the requirements through each stage of the project. High level concepts will be matched to scope items which will map to individual requirements which will map to corresponding functions, which will map to test(s). This matrix should also take into account any changes in scope during the life of the project. At the end of a project, this matrix should show each function built into a system, its source, and the reason any stated requirements may not have been delivered. This deliverable is optional and will be determined to be required at the beginning of the project. Risk Management Plan A Risk Management Plan is a document prepared by a Project Lead to foresee risks, to estimate the effectiveness, and to create response plans to mitigate them. A single Risk Management Plan can be overarching for all CLINs within the solicitation. Class Diagrams This is a type of static structure diagram that describes the structure of a system by showing the system's classes, their attributes, methods and the relationships between the classes. There will be some already created which will need to be updated for the individual enhancements requested.

C.3.5.3

C.3.5.4

C.3.5.5

C.3.5.6

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 80 of 120

The Senior Systems Architect is responsible for the completion of the Class Diagrams. C.3.5.7 Logical Data Model A logical data model is a representation of an organization's data, organized in terms of entities and relationships and is independent of any particular data management technology. This is created, updated, or maintained by the Senior Systems Architect. Physical Data Model A physical data model (also known as a database design) is a representation of a data design which takes into account the facilities and constraints of a given database management system. In the lifecycle of a project it is typically derived from a logical data model. This is created, updated, or maintained by the Database Administrator through discussions with the Senior Systems Architect. Navigational Flow Diagram A Navigation Map consists of a site map (or sitemap) and narrative describing the different parts of each page in the site and is used as a planning tool for web design typically organized in hierarchical fashion. This is created, updated, or maintained by the Senior Systems Architect. System Test Plan A test plan documents the strategy that will be used to verify and ensure that a product or system meets its design specifications and other requirements. This is created, updated, or maintained by the Senior Systems Architect or Project Lead. Deployment Model A Deployment Model diagrams the physical deployment of artifacts of the system. A deployment diagram shows what hardware components exist, what software components run on each, and how the different pieces are connected. This is created, updated, or maintained by the Senior Systems Architect. Versioned Java Source Code and Deployable EAR File This is the original code created or updated to enable the application to perform the necessary calculations and functions as described and designed according to the information obtained in the preceding subsections in C.3.5 Deliverables. This code is to be retained in the source code repository as designated by FSA currently this is SubVersion. Test Script(s) and Results This is the automated test scripts used to perform the testing of the application code as described and designed according to the information

C.3.5.8

C.3.5.9

C.3.5.10

C.3.5.11

C.3.5.12

C.3.5.13

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 81 of 120

obtained in the preceding subsections in C.3.5 Deliverables. This code is to be retained in the repository as designated by FSA currently this is SubVersion. C.3.5.14 Certification Support All tested code delivered to TCO (Testing and Certification Office) will be subject to certification testing according to the agreed upon requirements. Any code found to be defective is to be corrected, tested and delivered to TCO. If the defect is a severity level of 1 or 2 the turn-around time from notification to delivery of the corrected code shall be no more than 48 hours. Any defect severity level of 3 or 4 can be included in the next iteration build to be delivered to TCO but no longer than 2 weeks. Any defect severity level 5 must be processed through the SFG Change Control process and will be given specific instructions accordingly. All defects will be reported and notated in the FSA approved defect tracking solution currently ClearCase.

C.3.6 Contract family ancestry lookup and display delivered by 03/11/2012. C.3.7 1099 Enhancements delivered by 12/31/2011. C.3.8 Contract change enhancement delivered by 03/11/2012.

SECTION F ­ DELIVERIES OR PERFORMANCE F.1 452.211-74 PERIOD OF PERFORMANCE (FEB 1988)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 82 of 120

The period of performance of this contract is anticipated from 08/01/2011 to 03/11/2012. (End of Clause)

SECTION H ­ SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS H.1 Government Furnished Facilities, Property, Building Services, Materials and Information

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 83 of 120

The Government shall furnish space and building services. Facilities to be furnished to the Contractor under this contract are currently located in a Government leased building. Government facilities have been inspected for compliance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA). No hazards have been identified for which workarounds have been established. Should a hazard be subsequently identified, the Government will correct OSHA hazards according to Government developed and approved plans of abatement taking into account safety and health priorities. A higher priority for correction will not be assigned to the facilities provided hereunder merely because of this contracting initiative. The fact that no such conditions have been identified does not warrant or guarantee that no possible hazard exists, or that work-around procedures will not be necessary. Compliance with the OSHA and other applicable laws and regulations for the protection of employees is exclusively the obligation of the contractor. No alterations to the facilities shall be made without specific written permission from the Contracting Officer. The Contractor shall return the facilities to the Government in the same condition as received, fair wear and tear and approved modifications excepted. These facilities shall only be used in performance of this contract. H.1.1 Government-Furnished Equipment The Government shall furnish equipment to include desks, chairs, computer workstations, landline telephones, as well as access to fax, printers and copiers, as required for performance of this contract. The Contractor and the COTR shall jointly determine the working order and condition of all equipment and document their findings to the CO. In the event of disagreement between the Contractor and the Government representative on the working order and condition of equipment, the disagreement shall be treated as a dispute under the contract clause entitled "Disputes." Obtaining Replacement of Government-Furnished Equipment, the Contractor shall submit requests for replacement of Government furnished equipment to the COTR for processing. Such requests shall specify the reason for the replacement request. H.1.2 Contractor Furnished Property/Items If applicable, contractor-furnished property required for the performance of this contract shall be listed as proposed in the Contractor's proposal. H.2 Key Personnel

H.2.1 The contractor must identify in their proposal the key personnel at the technical expertise level (i.e. statistician, information systems experts, etc.) and senior level management and above assigned to the Task Order, as well as the total number of personnel assigned to the Task Order, the position of each such person, and the expected number of work hours of each. All proposed

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 84 of 120

successor or alternate personnel must currently hold the same or higher position in the firm with regard to the position for which they are being retained under this PWS. H.2.2 AGAR 452.237-74 - Key Personnel (FEB 1988) (a) The Contractor shall assign to this contract the following key personnel: 1. Project Leader 2. Senior Systems Architect 3. one Senior IT Specialist (b) During the first ninety (90) days of performance, the Contractor shall make no substitutions of key personnel unless the substitution is necessitated by illness, death, or termination of employment. The Contractor shall notify the Contracting Officer within 15 calendar days after the occurrence of any of these events and provide the information required by paragraph (c) below. After the initial 90-day period, the Contractor shall submit the information required by paragraph (c) to the Contracting Officer at least 15 days prior to making any permanent substitutions. (c) The Contractor shall provide a detailed explanation of the circumstances necessitating the proposed substitutions, complete resumes for the proposed substitutes, and any additional information requested by the Contracting Officer. Proposed substitutes should have comparable qualifications to those of the persons being replaced. The Contracting Officer will notify the Contractor within 15 calendar days after receipt of all required information of the decision on substitutions. The contract will be modified to reflect any approved changes of key personnel. (End of Clause)

PART III ­ LIST OF DOCUMENTS, EXHIBITS, AND OTHER ATTACHMENTS SECTION J ­ LIST OF ATTACHMENTS

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 85 of 120

Attachment 1 - Contract Ancestor Family Tree Deliverables Checklist Attachment 2 - 1099 Enhancements Deliverables Checklist Attachment 3 - Contract Change Enhancement Deliverables Checklist

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 86 of 120

Attachment 1 - Contract Ancestor Family Tree Deliverables Checklist

Contract Ancestor Family Tree Deliverables Checklist X
X X X X

Phase

Completion Date

Completion Approval

Element 1 - Conduct Software Requirements Gathering and Analysis
UPDATE GLOSSARY WITH APPROVED DEFINITIONS REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT S (USER REQUIREMENTS, EPIC AND USER STORIES, USE CASES) AND NEEDED OR DIRECTED. SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS DOCUMENT BUSINESS RULES SPREADSHEET (REQUIREMENTS MATRIX)

Element 2 - Risk Assessment
X RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN

Element 3 - Design Application and Documentation
X X X X X X CLASS DIAGRAM(S) LOGICAL DATA MODEL PHYSICAL DATA MODEL NAVIGATION MAP SYSTEM TEST PLAN DEPLOYMENT MODEL

Element 4 - Code Applications According To Requirements and Standards
X VERSIONED JAVA SOURCE CODE WITH ASSOCIATED DEPLOYABLE EAR FILE

Element 5 - Conduct Unit, Integration and System Testing
X TEST SCRIPT(S) AND THE RESULTS REPORTED IN THE NIGHTLY PROGRAM QUALITY REPORT

Element 6 - Provide Certification and Production Support
X ONCE APPLICATION HAS BEEN DELIVERED TO THE TEST AND CERTIFICATION OFFICE, A
DEFECT REPORT SHOWING ACCEPTANCE TESTING RESULTS

Element 7 ­ Project Management
X X X FEATURE BACKLOG RELEASE BACKLOG PROJECT PLAN

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 87 of 120

Attachment 2 - 1099 Enhancements Deliverables Checklist 1099 Enhancements Deliverables Checklist X
X X X X

Phase
UPDATE GLOSSARY WITH APPROVED DEFINITIONS REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT S (USER REQUIREMENTS, EPIC AND USER STORIES, USE CASES) AND NEEDED OR DIRECTED. SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS DOCUMENT BUSINESS RULES SPREADSHEET (REQUIREMENTS MATRIX)

Completion Date

Completion Approval

Element 1 - Conduct Software Requirements Gathering and Analysis

Element 2 - Risk Assessment
X RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN

Element 3 - Design Application and Documentation
X X X X X X CLASS DIAGRAM(S) LOGICAL DATA MODEL PHYSICAL DATA MODEL NAVIGATION MAP SYSTEM TEST PLAN DEPLOYMENT MODEL

Element 4 - Code Applications According To Requirements and Standards
X VERSIONED JAVA SOURCE CODE WITH ASSOCIATED DEPLOYABLE EAR FILE

Element 5 - Conduct Unit, Integration and System Testing
X TEST SCRIPT(S) AND THE RESULTS REPORTED IN THE NIGHTLY PROGRAM QUALITY REPORT

Element 6 - Provide Certification and Production Support
X ONCE APPLICATION HAS BEEN DELIVERED TO THE TEST AND CERTIFICATION OFFICE, A
DEFECT REPORT SHOWING ACCEPTANCE TESTING RESULTS

Element 7 ­ Project Management
X X X FEATURE BACKLOG RELEASE BACKLOG PROJECT PLAN

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 88 of 120

Attachment 3 - Contract Change Enhancement Deliverables Checklist Contract Change Enhancement Deliverables Checklist X
X X X X

Phase
UPDATE GLOSSARY WITH APPROVED DEFINITIONS REQUIREMENTS DOCUMENT S (USER REQUIREMENTS, EPIC AND USER STORIES, USE CASES) AND NEEDED OR DIRECTED. SUPPLEMENTARY SPECIFICATIONS DOCUMENT BUSINESS RULES SPREADSHEET (REQUIREMENTS MATRIX)

Completion Date

Completion Approval

Element 1 - Conduct Software Requirements Gathering and Analysis

Element 2 - Risk Assessment
X RISK MANAGEMENT PLAN

Element 3 - Design Application and Documentation
X X X X X X CLASS DIAGRAM(S) LOGICAL DATA MODEL PHYSICAL DATA MODEL NAVIGATION MAP SYSTEM TEST PLAN DEPLOYMENT MODEL

Element 4 - Code Applications According To Requirements and Standards
X VERSIONED JAVA SOURCE CODE WITH ASSOCIATED DEPLOYABLE EAR FILE

Element 5 - Conduct Unit, Integration and System Testing
X TEST SCRIPT(S) AND THE RESULTS REPORTED IN THE NIGHTLY PROGRAM QUALITY REPORT

Element 6 - Provide Certification and Production Support
X ONCE APPLICATION HAS BEEN DELIVERED TO THE TEST AND CERTIFICATION OFFICE, A
DEFECT REPORT SHOWING ACCEPTANCE TESTING RESULTS

Element 7 ­ Project Management
X X X FEATURE BACKLOG RELEASE BACKLOG PROJECT PLAN

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 89 of 120

SECTION K ­ REPRESENTATIONS, CERTIFICATIONS, AND OTHER STATEMENTS OF OFFERORS K.1 52.212-3 -- Offeror Representations and Certifications--Commercial Items (May 2011)

An offeror shall complete only paragraph (b) of this provision if the offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at http://orca.bpn.gov. If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete only paragraphs (c) through (o) of this provision. (a) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business eligible under the WOSB Program. "Forced or indentured child labor" means all work or service-- (1) Exacted from any person under the age of 18 under the menace of any penalty for its nonperformance and for which the worker does not offer himself voluntarily; or (2) Performed by any person under the age of 18 pursuant to a contract the enforcement of which can be accomplished by process or penalties. "Inverted domestic corporation", as used in this section, means a foreign incorporated entity which is treated as an inverted domestic corporation under 6 U.S.C. 395(b), i.e., a corporation that used to be incorporated in the United States, or used to be a partnership in the United States, but now is incorporated in a foreign country, or is a subsidiary whose parent corporation is incorporated in a foreign country, that meets the criteria specified in 6 U.S.C. 395(b), applied in accordance with the rules and definitions of 6 U.S.C. 395(c). An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code at 26 U.S.C. 7874. "Manufactured end product" means any end product in Federal Supply Classes (FSC) 10009999, except-- (1) FSC 5510, Lumber and Related Basic Wood Materials; (2) Federal Supply Group (FSG) 87, Agricultural Supplies; (3) FSG 88, Live Animals; (4) FSG 89, Food and Related Consumables; (5) FSC 9410, Crude Grades of Plant Materials; (6) FSC 9430, Miscellaneous Crude Animal Products, Inedible; (7) FSC 9440, Miscellaneous Crude Agricultural and Forestry Products; (8) FSC 9610, Ores;

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 90 of 120

(9) FSC 9620, Minerals, Natural and Synthetic; and (10) FSC 9630, Additive Metal Materials. "Place of manufacture" means the place where an end product is assembled out of components, or otherwise made or processed from raw materials into the finished product that is to be provided to the Government. If a product is disassembled and reassembled, the place of reassembly is not the place of manufacture. "Restricted business operations" means business operations in Sudan that include power production activities, mineral extraction activities, oil-related activities, or the production of military equipment, as those terms are defined in the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007 (Pub. L. 110-174). Restricted business operations do not include business operations that the person (as that term is defined in Section 2 of the Sudan Accountability and Divestment Act of 2007) conducting the business can demonstrate-- (1) Are conducted under contract directly and exclusively with the regional government of southern Sudan; (2) Are conducted pursuant to specific authorization from the Office of Foreign Assets Control in the Department of the Treasury, or are expressly exempted under Federal law from the requirement to be conducted under such authorization; (3) Consist of providing goods or services to marginalized populations of Sudan; (4) Consist of providing goods or services to an internationally recognized peacekeeping force or humanitarian organization; (5) Consist of providing goods or services that are used only to promote health or education; or (6) Have been voluntarily suspended. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern" means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and size standards in this solicitation. "Subsidiary" means an entity in which more than 50 percent of the entity is owned-- (1) Directly by a parent corporation; or

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 91 of 120

(2) Through another subsidiary of a parent corporation. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned business concern" means a concern which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of its stock is owned by one or more women; and whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and (2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program" (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127), means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (b) (1) Annual Representations and Certifications. Any changes provided by the offeror in paragraph (b)(2) of this provision do not automatically change the representations and certifications posted on the Online Representations and Certifications Application (ORCA) website. (2) The offeror has completed the annual representations and certifications electronically via the ORCA website at http://orca.bpn.gov. After reviewing the ORCA database information, the offeror verifies by submission of this offer that the representations and certifications currently posted electronically at FAR 52.212-3, Offeror Representations and Certifications-- Commercial Items, have been entered or updated in the last 12 months, are current, accurate, complete, and applicable to this solicitation (including the business size standard applicable to the NAICS code referenced for this solicitation), as of the date of this offer and are incorporated in this offer by reference (see FAR 4.1201), except for paragraphs ______________. [Offeror to identify the applicable paragraphs at (c) through (o) of this provision that the offeror has completed for the purposes of this solicitation only, if any. These amended representation(s) and/or certification(s) are also incorporated in this offer and are current, accurate, and complete as of the date of this offer. Any changes provided by the offeror are applicable to this solicitation only, and do not result in an update to the representations and certifications posted on ORCA.]

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 92 of 120

(c) Offerors must complete the following representations when the resulting contract will be performed in the United States or its outlying areas. Check all that apply. (1) Small business concern. The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a small business concern. (2) Veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (3) Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(2) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it o is, o is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (4) Small disadvantaged business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it o is, o is not a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (5) Women-owned small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is, o is not a women-owned small business concern. (6) WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (c)(5) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is,o is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(6)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (7) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (c)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents that-- (i) It o is, o is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It o is, o is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (c)(7)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. The offeror shall enter

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 93 of 120

the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: __________. Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. Note: Complete paragraphs (c)(8) and (c)(9) only if this solicitation is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold. (8) Women-owned business concern (other than small business concern). [Complete only if the offeror is a women-owned business concern and did not represent itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents that it o is a women-owned business concern. (9) Tie bid priority for labor surplus area concerns. If this is an invitation for bid, small business offerors may identify the labor surplus areas in which costs to be incurred on account of manufacturing or production (by offeror or first-tier subcontractors) amount to more than 50 percent of the contract price:____________________________________ (10) [Complete only if the solicitation contains the clause at FAR 52.219-23, Notice of Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns, or FAR 52.219-25, Small Disadvantaged Business Participation Program--Disadvantaged Status and Reporting, and the offeror desires a benefit based on its disadvantaged status.] (i) General. The offeror represents that either-- (A) It o is, o is not certified by the Small Business Administration as a small disadvantaged business concern and identified, on the date of this representation, as a certified small disadvantaged business concern in the CCR Dynamic Small Business Search database maintained by the Small Business Administration, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its certification, and, where the concern is owned by one or more individuals claiming disadvantaged status, the net worth of each individual upon whom the certification is based does not exceed $750,000 after taking into account the applicable exclusions set forth at 13 CFR 124.104(c)(2); or (B) It o has, o has not submitted a completed application to the Small Business Administration or a Private Certifier to be certified as a small disadvantaged business concern in accordance with 13 CFR 124, Subpart B, and a decision on that application is pending, and that no material change in disadvantaged ownership and control has occurred since its application was submitted. (ii) o Joint Ventures under the Price Evaluation Adjustment for Small Disadvantaged Business Concerns. The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that it is a joint venture that complies with the requirements in 13 CFR 124.1002(f) and that the representation in paragraph (c)(10)(i) of this provision is accurate for the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name of the small disadvantaged business concern that is participating in the joint venture: ________________.]

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 94 of 120

(11) HUBZone small business concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (c)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that-- (i) It o is, o is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR Part 126; and (ii) It o is, o is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR Part 126, and the representation in paragraph (c)(11)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: __________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (d) Representations required to implement provisions of Executive Order 11246-- (1) Previous contracts and compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; and (ii) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports. (2) Affirmative Action Compliance. The offeror represents that-- (i) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 cfr parts 60-1 and 60-2), or (ii) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (e) Certification Regarding Payments to Influence Federal Transactions (31 U.S.C. 1352). (Applies only if the contract is expected to exceed $150,000.) By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies to the best of its knowledge and belief that no Federal appropriated funds have been paid or will be paid to any person for influencing or attempting to influence an officer or employee of any agency, a Member of Congress, an officer or employee of Congress or an employee of a Member of Congress on his or her behalf in connection with the award of any resultant contract. If any registrants under the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 have made a lobbying contact on behalf of the offeror with respect to this contract, the offeror shall complete and submit, with its offer, OMB Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities, to provide the name of the registrants. The offeror need not report regularly employed officers or employees of the offeror to whom payments of reasonable compensation were made. (f) Buy American Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 52.225-1, Buy American Act--Supplies, is included in this solicitation.)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 95 of 120

(1) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (f)(2) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The offeror shall list as foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." The terms "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item" "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Supplies." (2) Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (3) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (g)(1) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-3, Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) or (g)(1)(iii) of this provision, is a domestic end product and that for other than COTS items, the offeror has considered components of unknown origin to have been mined, produced, or manufactured outside the United States. The terms "Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end product," "commercially available off-the-shelf (COTS) item," "component," "domestic end product," "end product," "foreign end product," "Free Trade Agreement country," "Free Trade Agreement country end product," "Israeli end product," and "United States" are defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements­Israeli Trade Act." (ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Free Trade Agreement country end products (other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian end products) or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Free Trade Agreement Country End Products (Other than Bahrainian, Moroccan, Omani, or Peruvian End Products) or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 96 of 120

______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The offeror shall list those supplies that are foreign end products (other than those listed in paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of this provision) as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act." The offeror shall list as other foreign end products those end products manufactured in the United States that do not qualify as domestic end products, i.e., an end product that is not a COTS item and does not meet the component test in paragraph (2) of the definition of "domestic end product." Other Foreign End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iv) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. (2) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate I. If Alternate I to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian End Products: Line Item No. _______________________________________ _______________________________________ _______________________________________ [List as necessary]

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 97 of 120

(3) Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act Certificate, Alternate II. If Alternate II to the clause at FAR 52.225-3 is included in this solicitation, substitute the following paragraph (g)(1)(ii) for paragraph (g)(1)(ii) of the basic provision: (g)(1)(ii) The offeror certifies that the following supplies are Canadian end products or Israeli end products as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Buy American Act--Free Trade Agreements--Israeli Trade Act": Canadian or Israeli End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (4) Trade Agreements Certificate. (Applies only if the clause at FAR 52.225-5, Trade Agreements, is included in this solicitation.) (i) The offeror certifies that each end product, except those listed in paragraph (g)(4)(ii) of this provision, is a U.S.-made or designated country end product, as defined in the clause of this solicitation entitled "Trade Agreements." (ii) The offeror shall list as other end products those end products that are not U.S.-made or designated country end products. Other End Products: Line Item No. Country of Origin ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ ______________ _________________ [List as necessary] (iii) The Government will evaluate offers in accordance with the policies and procedures of FAR Part 25. For line items covered by the WTO GPA, the Government will evaluate offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products without regard to the restrictions of the Buy American Act. The Government will consider for award only offers of U.S.-made or designated country end products unless the Contracting Officer determines that there are no offers for such products or that the offers for such products are insufficient to fulfill the requirements of the solicitation.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 98 of 120

(h) Certification Regarding Responsibility Matters (Executive Order 12689). (Applies only if the contract value is expected to exceed the simplified acquisition threshold.) The offeror certifies, to the best of its knowledge and belief, that the offeror and/or any of its principals-- (1) o Are, o are not presently debarred, suspended, proposed for debarment, or declared ineligible for the award of contracts by any Federal agency; (2) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been convicted of or had a civil judgment rendered against them for: commission of fraud or a criminal offense in connection with obtaining, attempting to obtain, or performing a Federal, state or local government contract or subcontract; violation of Federal or state antitrust statutes relating to the submission of offers; or commission of embezzlement, theft, forgery, bribery, falsification or destruction of records, making false statements, tax evasion, violating Federal criminal tax laws, or receiving stolen property; (3) o Are, o are not presently indicted for, or otherwise criminally or civilly charged by a Government entity with, commission of any of these offenses enumerated in paragraph (h)(2) of this clause; and (4) o Have, o have not, within a three-year period preceding this offer, been notified of any delinquent Federal taxes in an amount that exceeds $3,000 for which the liability remains unsatisfied. (i) Taxes are considered delinquent if both of the following criteria apply: (A) The tax liability is finally determined. The liability is finally determined if it has been assessed. A liability is not finally determined if there is a pending administrative or judicial challenge. In the case of a judicial challenge to the liability, the liability is not finally determined until all judicial appeal rights have been exhausted. (B) The taxpayer is delinquent in making payment. A taxpayer is delinquent if the taxpayer has failed to pay the tax liability when full payment was due and required. A taxpayer is not delinquent in cases where enforced collection action is precluded. (ii) Examples. (A) The taxpayer has received a statutory notice of deficiency, under I.R.C. §6212, which entitles the taxpayer to seek Tax Court review of a proposed tax deficiency. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek Tax Court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights. (B) The IRS has filed a notice of Federal tax lien with respect to an assessed tax liability, and the taxpayer has been issued a notice under I.R.C. §6320 entitling the taxpayer to request a hearing with the IRS Office of Appeals contesting the lien filing, and to further appeal to the Tax Court if the IRS determines to sustain the lien filing. In the course of the hearing, the taxpayer is entitled to contest the underlying tax liability because the taxpayer has had no prior opportunity to contest the liability. This is not a delinquent tax because it is not a final tax liability. Should the taxpayer seek tax court review, this will not be a final tax liability until the taxpayer has exercised all judicial appeal rights.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 99 of 120

(C) The taxpayer has entered into an installment agreement pursuant to I.R.C. §6159. The taxpayer is making timely payments and is in full compliance with the agreement terms. The taxpayer is not delinquent because the taxpayer is not currently required to make full payment. (D) The taxpayer has filed for bankruptcy protection. The taxpayer is not delinquent because enforced collection action is stayed under 11 U.S.C. §362 (the Bankruptcy Code). (i) Certification Regarding Knowledge of Child Labor for Listed End Products (Executive Order 13126). [The Contracting Officer must list in paragraph (i)(1) any end products being acquired under this solicitation that are included in the List of Products Requiring Contractor Certification as to Forced or Indentured Child Labor, unless excluded at 22.1503(b).] (1) Listed end products. Listed End Product Listed Countries of Origin ___________________ ___________________ ___________________ ___________________

(2) Certification. [If the Contracting Officer has identified end products and countries of origin in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision, then the offeror must certify to either (i)(2)(i) or (i)(2)(ii) by checking the appropriate block.] [ ] (i) The offeror will not supply any end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. [ ] (ii) The offeror may supply an end product listed in paragraph (i)(1) of this provision that was mined, produced, or manufactured in the corresponding country as listed for that product. The offeror certifies that it has made a good faith effort to determine whether forced or indentured child labor was used to mine, produce, or manufacture any such end product furnished under this contract. On the basis of those efforts, the offeror certifies that it is not aware of any such use of child labor. (j) Place of manufacture. (Does not apply unless the solicitation is predominantly for the acquisition of manufactured end products.) For statistical purposes only, the offeror shall indicate whether the place of manufacture of the end products it expects to provide in response to this solicitation is predominantly-- (1) o In the United States (Check this box if the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured in the United States exceeds the total anticipated price of offered end products manufactured outside the United States); or (2) o Outside the United States. (k) Certificates regarding exemptions from the application of the Service Contract Act. (Certification by the offeror as to its compliance with respect to the contract also constitutes its certification as to compliance by its subcontractor if it subcontracts out the exempt services.) [The contracting officer is to check a box to indicate if paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) applies.]

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 100 of 120

[ ] (1) Maintenance, calibration, or repair of certain equipment as described in FAR 22.1003-4(c)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The items of equipment to be serviced under this contract are used regularly for other than Governmental purposes and are sold or traded by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) in substantial quantities to the general public in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The services will be furnished at prices which are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(c)(2)(ii)) for the maintenance, calibration, or repair of such equipment; and (iii) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract will be the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing the same equipment of commercial customers. [ ] (2) Certain services as described in FAR 22.1003-4(d)(1). The offeror o does o does not certify that-- (i) The services under the contract are offered and sold regularly to non-Governmental customers, and are provided by the offeror (or subcontractor in the case of an exempt subcontract) to the general public in substantial quantities in the course of normal business operations; (ii) The contract services will be furnished at prices that are, or are based on, established catalog or market prices (see FAR 22.1003-4(d)(2)(iii)); (iii) Each service employee who will perform the services under the contract will spend only a small portion of his or her time (a monthly average of less than 20 percent of the available hours on an annualized basis, or less than 20 percent of available hours during the contract period if the contract period is less than a month) servicing the Government contract; and (iv) The compensation (wage and fringe benefits) plan for all service employees performing work under the contract is the same as that used for these employees and equivalent employees servicing commercial customers. (3) If paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause applies-- (i) If the offeror does not certify to the conditions in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) and the Contracting Officer did not attach a Service Contract Act wage determination to the solicitation, the offeror shall notify the Contracting Officer as soon as possible; and (ii) The Contracting Officer may not make an award to the offeror if the offeror fails to execute the certification in paragraph (k)(1) or (k)(2) of this clause or to contact the Contracting Officer as required in paragraph (k)(3)(i) of this clause. (l) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN) (26 U.S.C. 6109, 31 U.S.C. 7701). (Not applicable if the offeror is required to provide this information to a central contractor registration database to be eligible for award.) (1) All offerors must submit the information required in paragraphs (l)(3) through (l)(5) of this provision to comply with debt collection requirements of 31 U.S.C. 7701(c) and 3325(d),

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 101 of 120

reporting requirements of 26 U.S.C. 6041, 6041A, and 6050M, and implementing regulations issued by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). (2) The TIN may be used by the Government to collect and report on any delinquent amounts arising out of the offeror's relationship with the Government (31 U.S.C. 7701(c)(3)). If the resulting contract is subject to the payment reporting requirements described in FAR 4.904, the TIN provided hereunder may be matched with IRS records to verify the accuracy of the offeror's TIN. (3) Taxpayer Identification Number (TIN). o TIN: ________________________________. o TIN has been applied for. o TIN is not required because: o Offeror is a nonresident alien, foreign corporation, or foreign partnership that does not have income effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in the United States and does not have an office or place of business or a fiscal paying agent in the United States; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of a foreign government; o Offeror is an agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government. (4) Type of organization. o Sole proprietorship; o Partnership; o Corporate entity (not tax-exempt); o Corporate entity (tax-exempt); o Government entity (Federal, State, or local); o Foreign government; o International organization per 26 CFR 1.6049-4; o Other ________________________________. (5) Common parent. o Offeror is not owned or controlled by a common parent; o Name and TIN of common parent: Name ________________________________. TIN _________________________________. (m) Restricted business operations in Sudan. By submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror does not conduct any restricted business operations in Sudan. (n) Prohibition on Contracting with Inverted Domestic Corporations. (1) Relation to Internal Revenue Code. An inverted domestic corporation as herein defined does not meet the definition of an inverted domestic corporation as defined by the Internal Revenue Code 25 U.S.C. 7874. (2) Representation. By submission of its offer, the offeror represents that-- (i) It is not an inverted domestic corporation; and (ii) It is not a subsidiary of an inverted domestic corporation.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 102 of 120

(o) Sanctioned activities relating to Iran. (1) Unless a waiver is granted or an exception applies as provided in paragraph (o)(2) of this provision, by submission of its offer, the offeror certifies that the offeror, or any person owned or controlled by the offeror, does not engage in any activities for which sanctions may be imposed under section 5 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996. (2) The certification requirement of paragraph (o)(1) of this provision does not apply if-- (i) This solicitation includes a trade agreements certification (e.g., 52.212-3(g) or a comparable agency provision); and (ii) The offeror has certified that all the offered products to be supplied are designated country end products. (End of provision) K.2 Additional Clauses

If an offeror has not completed the annual representations and certifications electronically at the ORCA website, the offeror shall complete and or have read and will comply with the following provisions. K.2.1 52.203-2 -- Certificate of Independent Price Determination (Apr 1985) (a) The offeror certifies that -(1) The prices in this offer have been arrived at independently, without, for the purpose of restricting competition, any consultation, communication, or agreement with any other offeror or competitor relating to -(i) Those prices; (ii) The intention to submit an offer; or (iii) The methods or factors used to calculate the prices offered. (2) The prices in this offer have not been and will not be knowingly disclosed by the offeror, directly or indirectly, to any other offeror or competitor before bid opening (in the case of a sealed bid solicitation) or contract award (in the case of a negotiated solicitation) unless otherwise required by law; and (3) No attempt has been made or will be made by the offeror to induce any other concern to submit or not to submit an offer for the purpose of restricting competition. (b) Each signature on the offer is considered to be a certification by the signatory that the signatory -(1) Is the person in the offeror's organization responsible for determining the prices being offered in this bid or proposal, and that the signatory has not participated and will not participate in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision; or

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 103 of 120

(2)(i) Has been authorized, in writing, to act as agent for the following principals in certifying that those principals have not participated, and will not participate in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision ____________________ [insert full name of person(s) in the offeror's organization responsible for determining the prices offered in this bid or proposal, and the title of his or her position in the offeror's organization]; (ii) As an authorized agent, does certify that the principals named in subdivision (b)(2)(i) of this provision have not participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision; and (iii) As an agent, has not personally participated, and will not participate, in any action contrary to subparagraphs (a)(1) through (a)(3) of this provision. (c) If the offeror deletes or modifies subparagraph (a)(2) of this provision, the offeror must furnish with its offer a signed statement setting forth in detail the circumstances of the disclosure. (End of Provision) K.2.2 52.203-11 -- Certification and Disclosure Regarding Payments to Influence Certain Federal Transactions (Sep 2007) K.2.3 52.219-1 -- Small Business Program Representations (Apr 2011) (a)(1) The North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code for this acquisition is 541511 ­ Custom Computer Programming Services. (2) The small business size standard is $25 million. (3) The small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, other than on a construction or service contract, but which proposes to furnish a product which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees. (b) Representations. (1) The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a small business concern. (2) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, for general statistical purposes, that it [_] is, [_] is not, a small disadvantaged business concern as defined in 13 CFR 124.1002. (3) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a women-owned small business concern. (4) Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(3) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that--

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 104 of 120

(i) It [_] is, [_] is not a WOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(4)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the WOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: _________.] Each WOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the WOSB representation. (5) Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern. [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program in (b)(4) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that-- (i) It [_] is, [_] is not an EDWOSB concern eligible under the WOSB Program, has provided all the required documents to the WOSB Repository, and no change in circumstances or adverse decisions have been issued that affects its eligibility; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 127, and the representation in paragraph (b)(5)(i) of this provision is accurate in reference to the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture. [The offeror shall enter the name or names of the EDWOSB concern or concerns that are participating in the joint venture: _____________.] Each EDWOSB concern participating in the joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the EDWOSB representation. (6) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that it [_] is, [_] is not a veteran-owned small business concern. (7) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a veteran-owned small business concern in paragraph (b)(6) of this provision.] The offeror represents as part of its offer that is [_] is, [_] is not a service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern. (8) [Complete only if the offeror represented itself as a small business concern in paragraph (b)(1) of this provision.] The offeror represents, as part of its offer, that ­ (i) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone small business concern listed, on the date of this representation, on the List of Qualified HUBZone Small Business Concerns maintained by the Small Business Administration, and no material changes in ownership and control, principal office, or HUBZone employee percentage have occurred since it was certified in accordance with 13 CFR part 126; and (ii) It [_] is, [_] is not a HUBZone joint venture that complies with the requirements of 13 CFR part 126, and the representation in paragraph (b)(8)(i) of this provision is accurate for each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture. [The offeror shall

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 105 of 120

enter the names of each of the HUBZone small business concerns participating in the HUBZone joint venture: ___________.] Each HUBZone small business concern participating in the HUBZone joint venture shall submit a separate signed copy of the HUBZone representation. (c) Definitions. As used in this provision-- "Economically disadvantaged women-owned small business (EDWOSB) concern" means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States and who are economically disadvantaged in accordance with 13 CFR part 127. It automatically qualifies as a women-owned small business concern eligible under the WOSB Program. "Service-disabled veteran-owned small business concern"-- (1) Means a small business concern-- (i) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and (ii) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of a service-disabled veteran with permanent and severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of such veteran. (2) Service-disabled veteran means a veteran, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(2), with a disability that is service-connected, as defined in 38 U.S.C. 101(16). "Small business concern," means a concern, including its affiliates, that is independently owned and operated, not dominant in the field of operation in which it is bidding on Government contracts, and qualified as a small business under the criteria in 13 CFR Part 121 and the size standard in paragraph (a) of this provision. "Veteran-owned small business concern" means a small business concern-- (1) Not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one or more veterans (as defined at 38 U.S.C. 101(2)) or, in the case of any publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more veterans; and (2) The management and daily business operations of which are controlled by one or more veterans. "Women-owned small business concern," means a small business concern ­ (1) That is at least 51 percent owned by one or more women; or, in the case of any publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of the stock of which is owned by one or more women; and

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 106 of 120

(2) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more women. "Women-owned small business (WOSB) concern eligible under the WOSB Program (in accordance with 13 CFR part 127)," means a small business concern that is at least 51 percent directly and unconditionally owned by, and the management and daily business operations of which are controlled by, one or more women who are citizens of the United States. (d) Notice. (1) If this solicitation is for supplies and has been set aside, in whole or in part, for small business concerns, then the clause in this solicitation providing notice of the set-aside contains restrictions on the source of the end items to be furnished. (2) Under 15 U.S.C. 645(d), any person who misrepresents a firm's status as a business concern that is small, HUBZone small, small disadvantaged, service-disabled veteran-owned small, economically disadvantaged women-owned small, or women-owned small eligible under the WOSB Program in order to obtain a contract to be awarded under the preference programs established pursuant to section 8, 9, 15, 31, and 36 of the Small Business Act or any other provision of Federal law that specifically references section 8(d) for a definition of program eligibility, shall ­ (i) Be punished by imposition of fine, imprisonment, or both; (ii) Be subject to administrative remedies, including suspension and debarment; and (iii) Be ineligible for participation in programs conducted under the authority of the Act. (End of Provision) K.2.4 52.222-22 -- Previous Contracts and Compliance Reports (Feb 1999) The offeror represents that ­ (a) It o has, o has not participated in a previous contract or subcontract subject to the Equal Opportunity clause of this solicitation; (b) It o has, o has not filed all required compliance reports; and (c) Representations indicating submission of required compliance reports, signed by proposed subcontractors, will be obtained before subcontract awards. (End of Provision) K.2.5 52.222-25 -- Affirmative Action Compliance (Apr 1984) The offeror represents that ­

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 107 of 120

(a) It o has developed and has on file, o has not developed and does not have on file, at each establishment, affirmative action programs required by the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor (41 CFR 60-1 and 60-2); or (b) It o has not previously had contracts subject to the written affirmative action programs requirement of the rules and regulations of the Secretary of Labor. (End of Provision)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 108 of 120

SECTION L ­ INSTRUCTIONS, CONDITIONS, AND NOTICES TO OFFERORS L.1 52.252-2 -- Clauses Incorporated by Reference (FEB 1998)

This contract incorporates one or more clauses by reference, with the same force and effect as if they were given in full text. Upon request, the Contracting Officer will make their full text available. Also, the full text of a clause may be accessed electronically at this/these address(es): https://www.acquisition.gov/FAR/ or, www.usda.gov/procurement/policy/agar.html. L.1.1 52.216-1 -- Type of Contract (Apr 1984) The Government contemplates the award of an indefinite-quantity (with Firm-fixed-price (FFP) and Labor-hour (LH) deliverables) contract resulting from this solicitation. (End of Provision) This request for proposal (RFP) is being issued in accordance with FAR Part 12 Acquisition of Commercial Items and FAR subpart 19.8 limited to eligible 8(a) firms with a preference being given to Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Small Business Concerns for Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS). L.1.2 RFP Questions Any questions concerning this RFP shall be submitted to the Contracting Office via email to: Jeffrey.Mcrae@wdc.usda.gov by 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) on July 18, 2011. L.2 Request for Proposal Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS)

L.2.1 General Instructions to Offerors Proposals submitted in response to this RFP shall be formatted in accordance with the instructions provided in this section. Vendors shall furnish proposals in electronic and paper versions. The electronic version shall be submitted with the hard copy on two separated CD's identified as Price Proposal and Technical Proposal. Paper proposals shall be separately bound volumes in the quantities specified below. The total page count for all volumes of the proposal (including any and all pages, but excluding page count for resumes) should not exceed 50 pages. Proposals exceeding the number of pages will be removed from consideration. ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Executive Summary (Original plus 3 copies) Technical Volume (Original plus 3 copies) Past Performance (Original plus 3 copies) Price Volume (Original plus 3 copies)

Electronic and Paper versions of the Offeror's proposal shall be submitted to Jeffrey.Mcrae@wdc.usda.gov by 10:00 a.m. Eastern Standard Time (EST) on July 25, 2011

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 109 of 120

delivered to the following address: Jeffrey McRae USDA/FSA/AMD/COB Contractor Support Staff 355 E ST, SW 10TH FLOOR WASHINGTON, DC 20024 This request for proposal does not commit the Government to pay any costs incurred in the submission of any proposal or in making necessary studies for the preparation thereof. Nor does it commit the Government to procure or contract for said services. The Contracting Officer is the only individual who can commit the Government to the expenditure of public funds in connection with this proposed procurement. L.2.2 Mandatory Information to Be Submitted with Proposal To be considered for award, the Offeror shall submit a written proposal in accordance with the instructions below. THE OFFEROR IS EXPECTED TO EXAMINE THE ENTIRE RFP DOCUMENT AND ENSURE THAT THE PROPOSAL IS THE OFFEROR'S COMPLETE AND BEST OFFER UPON SUBMISSION. ANY EXCEPTIONS TO THE TECHNICAL AND PRICING REQUIREMENTS SHOULD BE NOTED AND BOLDED WITH YOUR PROPOSAL SUBMISSION. As award may be made without discussions, Offerors are not to expect or assume that opportunities to address any deficiencies, such as incomplete information, will be given. L.2.3 Proposal Instructions Introduction The offeror's proposal shall be submitted in the files set forth below. The offeror's proposal shall consist of four volumes. The Volumes are: Volume I Volume II Volume III Volume IV Format The submission shall be clearly indexed and logically assembled. Each volume shall be clearly identified and shall begin at the top of a page. All pages of each volume shall be appropriately numbered and identified by the complete company name, date, and solicitation number in the header and/or footer. Each paragraph shall be separated by at least one blank line. A standard Ariel or New Times Roman 12 point minimum font applies. Tables and illustrations may use a reduced font not to be less than 8 point font. Executive Summary Technical Proposal Past Performance Price Proposal

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 110 of 120

Additionally, the total page count for all volumes of the proposal, (including any and all pages, and excluding page count for resumes), should not exceed 50 pages. Executive Summary Volume ­ Offeror shall provide an Executive Summary of the company's qualifications, capabilities, knowledge and experience performing similar work as detailed in the solicitation. An authorized official of the firm shall sign the proposal and all certifications requiring original signature. Technical Proposal Volume ­ Offeror shall clearly propose their approach and show their understanding of the Performance Work Statement. The proposal and approach must incorporate the information as given in this solicitation. The offeror's Quality Assurance Plan will be evaluated as well as part of this Factor and must be included. Past Performance Volume ­ The offeror shall complete a minimum of three but not more than five Past Performance Evaluation Surveys (Attachment 3) and email them to both the Government contracting activity and technical representative responsible for the past/current contract with a cc: to this Solicitations Contracting Officer. The Government contracting activity and technical representative shall be instructed to electronically complete the Questionnaire and email it to the Contracting Officer/Contractor Support Staff prior to proposal due date. Offeror shall provide a specific narrative explanation of the contract performance for each of the Performance Risk Assessment Questionnaires, describing the objectives achieved and detailing how the effort is relevant to the requirement of this solicitation. Price Volume ­ The Offeror shall complete Section B of the Solicitation and Section B of the Attachment 4. A breakdown of all labor categories, rates and hours associated with proposed pricing shall also be provided. L.2.4 52.212-1 -- Instructions to Offerors -- Commercial Items (Jun 2008) (a) North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) code and small business size standard. The NAICS code and small business size standard for this acquisition is 541511 ­ Custom Computer Programming Services with a small business size standard of $25 million. However, the small business size standard for a concern which submits an offer in its own name, but which proposes to furnish an item which it did not itself manufacture, is 500 employees.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 111 of 120

(b) Submission of offers. Submit signed and dated offers to the office specified in this solicitation at or before the exact time specified in this solicitation. When using regular mail, use the following address: USDA/FSA/AMD Mail Stop 0567 1400 Independence Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20520 When using express mail or hand delivering to the Contracting Officer/Contractor Support Staff, use the following address: USDA/FSA/AMD 355 E ST, SW 10TH FLOOR WASHINGTON, DC 20024 The point of contact for proposal submissions is: Jeffrey McRae, Contractor Support Telephone: (202) 690-4030 Fax: (202) 690-3320 E-mail: Jeffrey.Mcrae@wdc.usda.gov As a minimum, offers must show-- (1) The solicitation number; (2) The time specified in the solicitation for receipt of offers; (3) The name, address, and telephone number of the offeror; (4) A technical description of the items being offered in sufficient detail to evaluate compliance with the requirements in the solicitation. This may include product literature, or other documents, if necessary; (5) Terms of any express warranty; (6) Price and any discount terms; (7) "Remit to" address, if different than mailing address; (8) A completed copy of the representations and certifications at FAR 52.212-3 (see FAR 52.212-3(b) for those representations and certifications that the offeror shall complete electronically); (9) Acknowledgment of Solicitation Amendments; (10) Past performance information, when included as an evaluation factor, to include recent and relevant contracts for the same or similar items and other references (including contract numbers, points of contact with telephone numbers and other relevant information); and

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 112 of 120

(11) If the offer is not submitted on the SF 1449, include a statement specifying the extent of agreement with all terms, conditions, and provisions included in the solicitation. Offers that fail to furnish required representations or information, or reject the terms and conditions of the solicitation may be excluded from consideration. (c) Period for acceptance of offers. The offeror agrees to hold the prices in its offer firm for 30 calendar days from the date specified for receipt of offers, unless another time period is specified in an addendum to the solicitation. (d) Product samples. When required by the solicitation, product samples shall be submitted at or prior to the time specified for receipt of offers. Unless otherwise specified in this solicitation, these samples shall be submitted at no expense to the Government, and returned at the sender's request and expense, unless they are destroyed during preaward testing. (e) Multiple offers. Offerors are encouraged to submit multiple offers presenting alternative terms and conditions or commercial items for satisfying the requirements of this solicitation. Each offer submitted will be evaluated separately. (f) Late submissions, modifications, revisions, and withdrawals of offers. (1) Offerors are responsible for submitting offers, and any modifications, revisions, or withdrawals, so as to reach the Government office designated in the solicitation by the time specified in the solicitation. If no time is specified in the solicitation, the time for receipt is 4:30 p.m., local time, for the designated Government office on the date that offers or revisions are due. (2)(i) Any offer, modification, revision, or withdrawal of an offer received at the Government office designated in the solicitation after the exact time specified for receipt of offers is "late" and will not be considered unless it is received before award is made, the Contracting Officer determines that accepting the late offer would not unduly delay the acquisition; and-- (A) If it was transmitted through an electronic commerce method authorized by the solicitation, it was received at the initial point of entry to the Government infrastructure not later than 5:00 p.m. one working day prior to the date specified for receipt of offers; or (B) There is acceptable evidence to establish that it was received at the Government installation designated for receipt of offers and was under the Government's control prior to the time set for receipt of offers; or (C) If this solicitation is a request for proposals, it was the only proposal received. (ii) However, a late modification of an otherwise successful offer, that makes its terms more favorable to the Government, will be considered at any time it is received and may be accepted. (3) Acceptable evidence to establish the time of receipt at the Government installation includes the time/date stamp of that installation on the offer wrapper, other documentary evidence of receipt maintained by the installation, or oral testimony or statements of Government personnel.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 113 of 120

(4) If an emergency or unanticipated event interrupts normal Government processes so that offers cannot be received at the Government office designated for receipt of offers by the exact time specified in the solicitation, and urgent Government requirements preclude amendment of the solicitation or other notice of an extension of the closing date, the time specified for receipt of offers will be deemed to be extended to the same time of day specified in the solicitation on the first work day on which normal Government processes resume. (5) Offers may be withdrawn by written notice received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers. Oral offers in response to oral solicitations may be withdrawn orally. If the solicitation authorizes facsimile offers, offers may be withdrawn via facsimile received at any time before the exact time set for receipt of offers, subject to the conditions specified in the solicitation concerning facsimile offers. An offer may be withdrawn in person by an offeror or its authorized representative if, before the exact time set for receipt of offers, the identity of the person requesting withdrawal is established and the person signs a receipt for the offer. (g) Contract award (not applicable to Invitation for Bids). The Government intends to evaluate offers and award a contract without discussions with offerors. Therefore, the offeror's initial offer should contain the offeror's best terms from a price and technical standpoint. However, the Government reserves the right to conduct discussions if later determined by the Contracting Officer to be necessary. The Government may reject any or all offers if such action is in the public interest; accept other than the lowest offer; and waive informalities and minor irregularities in offers received. (h) Multiple awards. The Government may accept any item or group of items of an offer, unless the offeror qualifies the offer by specific limitations. Unless otherwise provided in the Schedule, offers may not be submitted for quantities less than those specified. The Government reserves the right to make an award on any item for a quantity less than the quantity offered, at the unit prices offered, unless the offeror specifies otherwise in the offer. (i) Availability of requirements documents cited in the solicitation. (1)(i) The GSA Index of Federal Specifications, Standards and Commercial Item Descriptions, FPMR Part 101-29, and copies of specifications, standards, and commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained for a fee by submitting a request to-- GSA Federal Supply Service Specifications Section Suite 8100 470 East L'Enfant Plaza, SW Washington, DC 20407 Telephone (202) 619-8925 Facsimile (202) 619-8978. (ii) If the General Services Administration, Department of Agriculture, or Department of Veterans Affairs issued this solicitation, a single copy of specifications, standards, and

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 114 of 120

commercial item descriptions cited in this solicitation may be obtained free of charge by submitting a request to the addressee in paragraph (i)(1)(i) of this provision. Additional copies will be issued for a fee. (2) Most unclassified Defense specifications and standards may be downloaded from the following ASSIST websites: (i) ASSIST (http://assist.daps.dla.mil). (ii) Quick Search (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/quicksearch). (iii) ASSISTdocs.com (http://assistdocs.com). (3) Documents not available from ASSIST may be ordered from the Department of Defense Single Stock Point (DoDSSP) by-- (i) Using the ASSIST Shopping Wizard (http://assist.daps.dla.mil/wizard); (ii) Phoning the DoDSSP Customer Service Desk (215) 697-2179, Mon-Fri, 0730 to 1600 EST; or (iii) Ordering from DoDSSP, Building 4, Section D, 700 Robbins Avenue, Philadelphia, PA 19111-5094, Telephone (215) 697-2667/2179, Facsimile (215) 697-1462. (4) Nongovernment (voluntary) standards must be obtained from the organization responsible for their preparation, publication, or maintenance. (j) Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) Number. (Applies to all offers exceeding $3,000, and offers of $3,000 or less if the solicitation requires the Contractor to be registered in the Central Contractor Registration (CCR) database.) The offeror shall enter, in the block with its name and address on the cover page of its offer, the annotation "DUNS" or "DUNS+4" followed by the DUNS or DUNS+4 number that identifies the offeror's name and address. The DUNS+4 is the DUNS number plus a 4-character suffix that may be assigned at the discretion of the offeror to establish additional CCR records for identifying alternative Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT) accounts (see FAR Subpart 32.11) for the same concern. If the offeror does not have a DUNS number, it should contact Dun and Bradstreet directly to obtain one. An offeror within the United States may contact Dun and Bradstreet by calling 1-866-705-5711 or via the internet at http://fedgov.dnb.com/webform. An offeror located outside the United States must contact the local Dun and Bradstreet office for a DUNS number. The offeror should indicate that it is an offeror for a Government contract when contacting the local Dun and Bradstreet office. (k) Central Contractor Registration. Unless exempted by an addendum to this solicitation, by submission of an offer, the offeror acknowledges the requirement that a prospective awardee shall be registered in the CCR database prior to award, during performance and through final payment of any contract resulting from this solicitation. If the Offeror does not become registered in the CCR database in the time prescribed by the Contracting Officer, the Contracting Officer will proceed to award to the next otherwise successful registered Offeror. Offerors may obtain information on registration and annual confirmation requirements via the internet at http://www.ccr.gov or by calling 1-888-227-2423 or 269-961-5757.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 115 of 120

(l) Debriefing. If a post-award debriefing is given to requesting offerors, the Government shall disclose the following information, if applicable: (1) The agency's evaluation of the significant weak or deficient factors in the debriefed offeror's offer. (2) The overall evaluated cost or price and technical rating of the successful and the debriefed offeror and past performance information on the debriefed offeror. (3) The overall ranking of all offerors, when any ranking was developed by the agency during source selection. (4) A summary of the rationale for award; (5) For acquisitions of commercial items, the make and model of the item to be delivered by the successful offeror. (6) Reasonable responses to relevant questions posed by the debriefed offeror as to whether source-selection procedures set forth in the solicitation, applicable regulations, and other applicable authorities were followed by the agency. (End of provision) L.3 AGAR 452.204-70 Inquiries (FEB 1988)

Inquiries and all Correspondence concerning this solicitation should be submitted in writing to the Contracting Officer. Offerors should contact only the Contracting Officer issuing the solicitation about any aspect of this requirement prior to contract award. (End of provision)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 116 of 120

SECTION M ­ EVALUATION FACTORS FOR AWARD M.1 52.212-2 -- Evaluation - Commercial Items (Jan 1999)

(a) The Government will award a contract resulting from this solicitation to the responsible offeror whose offer conforming to the solicitation will be the best value to the Government, price and other factors considered. The following factors shall be used to evaluate offers: ** In accordance with FAR subpart 19.8 this requirement is being set-aside for eligible 8(a) firms with a preference being given to Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Small Business Concerns** The acquisition strategy is to conduct a competitive acquisition set-aside for Small Businesses limited to eligible 8(a) firms with a preference being given to Service-Disabled Veteran-owned Small Business Concerns, for a hybrid firm-fixed-price and labor-hour indefinite-quantity contract, with an anticipated period of performance from August 1, 2011 July 31, 2015 including one 12-month Base Period and three 12-month Option Periods. Award will be made to the best value proposal, which is determined to be the most beneficial to the Government wherein the Government is more concerned with obtaining superior technical performance or reduced risk than in making an award at the lowest overall cost to the Government. TECHNICAL: The Offeror's proposal must address all aspects of the performance work statement, and must provide sufficient information to show that the offeror: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Has a clear understanding of the work to be performed; Has the technical ability to comply with all aspects of the Performance Work Statement; Has the resources and capacity to meet all deadlines and requirements, and submit quality work within the deliverables schedule provided; Has the ability to consistently provide qualified personnel for the requirement.

Please include resumes for key personnel proposed for this requirement in your submittal, as required by section H.4, Key Personnel, in the PWS/Contract Sections. The offeror's Quality Assurance Plan (QAP) will be evaluated as well as part of this Factor. The QAP should not be too elaborate in scope/nature, but rather general and easy to monitor, in order to determine if the contractor is meeting the contract requirements satisfactorily. Relevant Experience. (Subfactors listed below are in descending order of importance): The technical proposal shall clearly identify the Offeror's wishes to be considered for this requirement and provide evidence of experience in providing this service. Experience shall be evaluated from work in the past five years.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 117 of 120

Technical Approach and Understanding ­ a. Technical Capability/Approach/PWS ­ The offeror must propose their approach and therefore demonstrate their understanding of the Performance Work Statement and required Deliverables. ˇ Ability to support large, mission critical, web system b. Web Development ­ Experience with JAVA version J2EE, web services c. Testing ­ Experience with Unit, Integration and Automated Testing. Evidence of test plans, test criteria, etc. d. Project Management ­ Experience with managing technical resources, reporting project status, completing backlogs, and C&A processes. Agile experience. PMP certification desired. e. Deployment and Implementation Plan Support ­ Evidence of production implementations (includes operating procedures, turnover documentation, deployment plans etc.) f. Compliance (Experience) ­ Example of following the SDLC, FISMA and 508 guidelines. g. Disaster Recovery ­ Documented experience. h. Knowledge Transfer ­ Outlines plan for knowledge transfer of skills and technologies. i. Key Personnel and Staffing ­ A Staffing Plan must be submitted including the number of proposed personnel, the labor category and descriptions, the percentage of time each will spend on the project and their qualifications including resumes and experience in similar projects and an organizational chart. Staffing plan should also show any work to be subcontracted, the names and qualifications of subcontractors, and the percentage of the total contract to be subcontracted. j. Feasibility of Approach ­ The proposal will be evaluated to determine whether the fferor's methods and approach to meeting the solicitation requirements provide the Government with a high level of confidence of successful completion within the required schedule. PAST PERFORMANCE: The offeror must show that the past performance (at least 3 but no more than 5 with offeror being Prime in at least 1 of the references) demonstrates a solid, proven track record (within the last 5 years), for projects similar in scope and size, with demonstrated results as well as proven past performance in the areas outlined in the Performance Work Statement and required Deliverables. An offeror with proven experience, demonstrated results and positive references from clients will receive a more favorable evaluation. Past Performance ­ a. Quality of Product or Service ­ The offeror will be evaluated on compliance with previous contract requirements, accuracy of reports, and technical excellence to include Quality Awards/Certificates.

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 118 of 120

b. Timeliness of Performance ­ The offeror will be evaluated on meeting milestones, reliability, responsiveness to technical direction, deliverables completed on-time, adherence to contract schedules including contract administration. c. Business Relations ­ The offeror will be evaluated on the ability to provide effective management, cooperative and proactive behavior with the technical representative(s) and Contracting Officer, flexibility, responsiveness to inquires, problem resolution and customer satisfaction. The offeror will be evaluated on the technical monitor's satisfaction with the overall performance, and final product and services. Evaluation of past performance will be based on consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances. The evaluation of past performance is a subjective assessment based on a consideration of all relevant facts and circumstances. The evaluation may consider information from any source(s) deemed necessary by the Contracting Officer. Each reference shall include the customer's name, contract number, dollar value, the location where the services were provided, contact person(s), customer's telephone number, a complete description of the service type, and dates the services were provided. The references may include State or Federal government customers where the offeror performed within the past 5 years. The Agency reserves the right to use any information or additional references deemed necessary to establish the ability of the offeror to perform the conditions of the contract. Past Performance Risk Evaluation ­ a. The Performance Risk evaluation will assess the relative risks associated with an offeror's likelihood of success in performing the solicitation's requirements as indicated by that offeror's record of past performance. In this context, "offeror" refers to the proposed prime contractor and all proposed subcontractors. The prime contractor and proposed subcontractors shall be assessed individually and the results shall then be assessed in their totality to derive the offeror's Performance Risk rating. b. The Government will conduct a performance risk assessment based on the quality, relevancy, and age of the offeror's past performance, as well as that of its' subcontractors, as it relates to the probability of successful accomplishment of the required effort. When assessing performance risk, the Government will focus its inquiry on the past performance of the offeror and its proposed subcontractors as it relates to the solicitation requirements. These requirements include all aspects of schedule, performance, and supportability, including the offeror's record of: ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ ˇ Conforming to specifications and standards of good workmanship Ability to resolve technical problems quickly and effectively Business like concern for the interest of its' customers Establishing and maintaining adequate management of subcontractors Quality and Timeliness of the product delivered

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 119 of 120

c. Offerors are cautioned that in conducting the performance risk assessment, the Government may use data provided in the offerors proposal and data obtained from other sources. Since the Government may not necessarily interview all of the sources provided by the offerors, it is incumbent upon the offerors to explain the relevance of the data provided. Offerors are reminded that while the Government may elect to consider data obtained from other sources, the burden of proving low performance risk rests with the offerors. PRICE: ˇ The Offeror shall provide a price proposal for the period of performance (Base and Options) to include all of the information shown in Schedule B of the RFP and Schedule B of Attachment 4. The Offeror shall provide a breakdown of all labor categories, rates and hours associated with proposed pricing. The Offeror is not required to price travel as travel is not authorized.

ˇ ˇ

Price Evaluation ­ a. The Government will evaluate price based on comparative, competitive pricing among the offerors. The overall price offered will be used for comparison for evaluation purposes. b. The Government will evaluate offerors for award purposes by adding the total of all prices, including all options if applicable. Technical and past performance, when combined, are significantly more important than cost or price. (b) Options. The Government will evaluate offers for award purposes by adding the total price for all options to the total price for the basic requirement. The Government may determine that an offer is unacceptable if the option prices are significantly unbalanced. Evaluation of options shall not obligate the Government to exercise the option(s). (c) A written notice of award or acceptance of an offer, mailed or otherwise furnished to the successful offeror within the time for acceptance specified in the offer, shall result in a binding contract without further action by either party. Before the offer's specified expiration time, the Government may accept an offer (or part of an offer), whether or not there are negotiations after its receipt, unless a written notice of withdrawal is received before award. (End of provision)

Tobacco Assessment and Payment System (TAPS) Solicitation: AG-3151-S-11-0025

Page 120 of 120

452.216-72 -- EVALUATION QUANTITIES--INDEFINITE-DELIVERY CONTRACT (FEB 1988) To evaluate offers for award purposes, the Government will apply the offeror's proposed fixedprices/rates to the estimated quantities included in the solicitation, and will add other direct costs if applicable. (End of Provision) M.3 Attachment 4 is anticipated to be the initial awarded Task Order. Based on the evaluation criteria of Section M and the requirements set forth in this solicitation, a best value evaluation of the offeror's technical approach, understanding, and price--as they address the requirements of Attachment 4--will be used to determine the successful offeror. The Government reserves the right to make an award without discussions.

M.2

