DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION AGENCY (DSCA)



PROCUREMENT WORK STATEMENT FOR:



PROCUREMENT AND INSTALLATION AND FOLLOW-ON SUPPORT FOR VIDEO-TELECONFERENCING (VTC) AND AUDIO-VISUAL EQUIPMENT FOR 



DSCA CASE WRITING DIVISION (CWD)



DATE:   12 February 2013



1.   Introduction.



This procurement Work Statement is issued to support the acquisition, installation and follow-on support for video-teleconferencing and audio-visual equipment to be installed in Room 118, Bldg 52, 2475 K Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433



2.  Background.



TheCase Writing Division is located as a satellite office of the DSCA Operations Directorate located at Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433.  The equipment being requested is to equip a new conference room being built as part of a building redesign.  The equipment will be integrated within the existing Local Area Network (LAN) and are designed to be compatible with the existing hardware configuration for ease of system integration and support.



3.  Program Objects and Scope of Work:   Request purchase, installation and follow-on technical support of the following video-teleconferencing and audio-visual equipment.  No specific brand or model is requested. 



3.1.  Project Overview



a.  Purchase and install all new AV / VTC equipment.  All AV equipment (accepting computer and laptop workstations) to be included in AV cabinet and be able to project sound and video using existing room sound and video layout (ceiling speaker, projector, and screen in current locations)



b.  it is desirable that the system  have the same user‐interface on lectern control units as DISAM Rooms in the same building.



c.  Design, assemble, install, test, adjust, and program equipment during mutually agreeable window starting no sooner than Jan-Mar 13.   DISAM/CWD is under a major building modification and the installation dates may change as a result of this effort 



Note: CWD was only recently notified of a construction completion schedule changes from November 12 to February 13



b.  Provide up to ½ day training to CWD IT staff, if possible, concurrent with DISAM staff on operation/maintenance of equipment depending on installation cycle.  



c.   Provide one‐year onsite technical support, with optional future year support. If AV system is inoperable, provide support onsite within two hours of trouble call and return to functional system with 24 hours of trouble call.  CWD to pay replacement cost of any equipment outside of manufacturer warrantee for any device <$3,000 in replacement, any device with replacement cost >$2,999 will be replaced under this support contract at no additional cost to USG.



3.2   Specific room requirements:  Conference Room, Room 118 (Schematic provided)



a.   Audio Visual (AV) cabinet:

1) Locked, with no user access to controls or wires without a key

2)  UPS/power filter with capacity to supply all devices for at least 10 minutes. i.   Computer will be protected independently by customer.

3)	Space for all room AV devices (minus computer) with at least ¼ cabinet open for potential additional equipment.

4)   All speaker/user input jacks must be labeled in plain English (“laptop video connection”,“HD Input,” etc.) and accessible outside of locked cabinet.

5) Unlocked drawer in/on unit (attached) containing all remote devices – all remotes labeled as to function (“VTC”) in addition to manufacturer labels.



b.  Control Unit.  Small (less than 10” diagonal) LCD control unit on speaker lectern for all AV devices in cabinet that permits icon‐based power, sound, and other adjustments to all AV units without access to AV cabinet. Unit must have the ability to expand for additional AV devices.

1)   Must be able to control screens and projector lift bay from this panel.



c.  Sound Equalizer System.  Purchase and install a sound equalizer system that permits all sound capable AV equipment to project through room speakers with dynamic audio adjustment to provide steady‐level amplified output regardless of specific device volume input.  In addition, System should include:

1)  Wireless microphone pods (2) for conference table placement with independent mute capability.

2)  Wireless handheld microphones (1-2) for use by participants away from the main table.

3)  Six speakers installed in the ceiling panels to support both VTC and teleconferencing requirements.



d.  Projector.  Purchase and install new ceiling-mounted projector to project Computer, VTC or TV Tuner output to pull-down screen on west side of conference room



e.  Dual Flat-Screen LED HDTV units.  Purchase and install dual flat screen video monitors (Est Size ~55-60" each) on the east wall with TV tuner capability with the ability to display Computer slides, VTC feed, or TV Tuner output.

1)   Must support HDMI, DVI, VGA input.

2)  120hz, full 1080p resolution, 4,000,000:1 contrast ratio, ~20w stereo audio, 4xHDMI, PC in

3)   Must be able to display computer slides or incoming VTC input slides on one screen and multiple VTC sites on other screen or multiple VTC sites across both screens.\

4)  Include all wall mounting materials.



f.  Computer use.  VTC and audio-visual equipment must support

1)  Input from standard Windows workstation video and sound and Wireless ability to move forward/back in slides via simple 2‐4 button controller (forward/back/blank) with the laser pointer.   

2)  Ability to connect additional laptop without disconnecting standard workstation. 

3)  Must support HDMI / DVI / VGA input.

e)  Ability to display output across projector or dual flat screens or both.



g.  DVD/Blu-Ray Player   Blu‐Ray video player and connection for WPAFB TV input with ability for additional HD/NTSC AV input by user/speaker.



h.  Video-Teleconferencing (VTC) System.  Purchase and install a HD‐level videoconference system that supports both IP-based and ISDN connectivity .

1)  Camera needs to be able to view entire room and have ability to zoom on any speaker seated in the front‐half of room (zoom can be manual or on/off auto track).

2)  System should support the ability to host a minimum of four external video/audio VTC feeds and up to 4 external audio conferencing locations simultaneously.

3)  All VTC equipment provided must be on the DoD-approved list for use with DoD computer networks.



i.  Ability to add recording of presentations (AV cabinet expansion, connections, controllers) in a future upgrade – but no cameras, recorders, etc. at this time.



j.  Audio teleconferencing with wireless conference table mics (and speakers) if ceiling speakers are not used)



k.   VTC and Audio-Visual system management should able to handle simultaneous input from VTC source(s), teleconference source(s), resident computer, or a supplemental laptop computer and simultaneously direct the visual output thru the projectors and dual flatscreen monitors with output site selectable based on requirements.



3.3  Section 508 Requirements.  The following Section 508 Accessibility Standards (Technical Standards and Functional Performance Criteria) are applicable to this acquisition:



Applicable Section 508 Product Requirements



Section 1194.21 - Software Applications and Operating Systems

Section 1194.22 - Web0based Internet and Intranet Information and Applications

Section 1194.33 - Telecommunications Products

Section 1194.24 - Video and Multi-media Products

Section 1194.25 - Self-Contained, Closed Products

Section 1194.26 - Desktop and Portable Computers

Section 1194.31 - Function Performance Criteria

Section 1194.41 - Information, Documentation and Support



The contractor shall complete and submit the Government Product/Service Accessibility Template (GPAT) for this requirement and submit it along with the quote (only include this sentence if award if award is going to be made to a manufacturer.  If award is going to be made to a reseller, your will need to obtain the VPAT from the manufacturer)



3.4.   The contractor will provide a toll-free number for technical support (Monday through Friday, from 8AM to 5PM). Contractor will only accept service call requests by the following authorized representatives of the DSCA Case Writing Division (DCSA-OPS-CWD) located at 2475 K Street, WPAFB, OH, 45433:



	Michael Blatti: 



4.  Deliverables.  The hardware, software and any associated peripherals, as defined above, will be considered deliverables for the purposes of this contract.  Also, all licenses routinely provided with the software, by third party software vendor will be provided to the Government.  The vendor will also provide advance written and/or electronic that the equipment has been shipped, to allow for shipment tracking.   



If provided electronically, all shipment notifications should be provided to .   If provided in a written form, the shipment notification should be mailed to DSCA Case Writing Division, Building 52, 2475 K Street, Wright-Patterson, OH 45433.



6.  Security / Sensitivity.   All work associated with this PWS is UNCLASSIFIED.

Sensitivity - no access is required for non-U.S. citizen government and contractor personnel.



Information Assurance--  All software components or products incorporated into DoD information systems must comply with the evaluation and validation requirements of the National Security Telecommunications and Information Systems Security Policy Number 11.  Such products must be satisfactorily evaluated and validated either prior to purchase or as a condition of purchase;  i.e.: vendors will warrant, in their responses to a solicitation as a condition of the contract, that the vendor’s product will satisfactorily validated within a period of time specified in the solicitation and the contract.  Purchase contracts shall specify that product validation will be maintained for updated versions or modifications by subsequent evaluation or through participation in the National IA Partnership (NIAP) Assurance Maintenance Program.

In the event security requirements change, the contracting office and the contractor, will be notified of the changes.  These changes may require modifications to the contract, and may affect personnel and tasks.





7.   Government Furnished Equipment (GFE)/ Government Furnished Information (GFI) / Government Furnished Software (GFS):    N/A



8.  Task Monitor (TMs)/COR:



Primary Task Monitor & ship to Address:

Name:	Michael Blatti, Deputy Director for Case Writing

Organization:  Defense Security Cooperation Agency, Case Writing Division

Address:  Bldg 52, 2475 K Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433

Phone No:  (937) 904-8450

Fax No: (937) 255-6337

Email:  	



9.  Other Direct Costs:    N/A	



10.  Contract Type:  Determined by Contracting Officer



11.  Contracting POC:



		Contracting Office 

		Defense Security Cooperation Agency

Toni Davis

		201 12th Street South, Suite 203

		Arlington, VA 22202

		Ph:  (703) 604-1002



12.  Document Review:   N/A



13.   Quality Control and Quality Assurance:



		John Ligotino, IT Technician, DSCA Case Writing Division 

(CWD), 2475 K Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 



14.   Document Deliverable Criteria:  N/A.



15.   Other Pertinent Information or Special Considerations:   N/A



16.   Contractor Travel:   N/A



17.   Invoices:   

Invoices shall be submitted electronically via Wide Area Workflow (WAWF) to:

Name:  Mr. Michael Blatti (COR)

Organization:  Defense Security Cooperation Agency, Case Writing Division

Address:  Bldg 52, 2475 K Street, Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433

Phone No:  (937) 904-8450

Fax No: (937) 255-6337

Email:  	



To access WAWF for submitting your invoice, go to .	 Also, in order for WAWF to send the proper notification to the COR that there is an invoice that needs his or her attention, please be sure to include the COR's email address at the appropriate place during your WAWF invoice submission process.



18.   Period of Performance:   The period of performance for this contracting effort will be a follows:  Desired delivery and installation date is 15-30 May 2013 due to construction contract slippage.  Actual installation date will be depend on release of site by construction contract contracting officer. 



19.  Delivery Location:    DSCA Case Writing Division

							 Building 52, 2475 K Street

							 Wright-Patterson AFB, OH 45433

	

